Ultra-Low Interactive Latency with Frameless Render-Display Integration
Evan Jonson∗, Aaron Fulmer∗, Hyoungsik Nam+, Hee-Jin Choi◦, Benjamin Watson∗
∗Visual Experience Lab, North Carolina State Univ., Raleigh NC USA
+Dept. Information Display, Kyung Hee Univ., Seoul, South Korea
◦Dept. Physics and Astronomy, Sejong Univ., Seoul, South Korea
Abstract
Display applications are increasingly interactive, driving reduc-
tions in display latency. Yet display latency is only one compo-
nent of total interactive click-to-photon latency, the delay users
perceive. This interactive latency also includes frame buffering,
GPU-display synchronization, and display refresh. This paper
presents a working prototype that tightly integrates render and
display, eliminating frame and synchronization delays, mitigat-
ing refresh delays, and reducing interactive latency below 2ms.
Author Keywords
Latency; frames; synchronization; refresh; progressive scan; ray
tracing
1.
Frames Cause Latency And May Not Be Needed
Most displays are used in interactive settings, in which a strong pre-
dictor of usability and performance is “click-to-photon” latency:
the delay between user input and the resulting change on the dis-
play. Gaming displays have reduced click-to-photon latency by in-
creasing refresh rates and mitigating other sources of latency intro-
duced by the display itself. Yet display latency is only one part of
total interactive, click-to-photon latency. To achieve further latency
reductions, we are investigating tighter integration of displays with
GPU renderers.
A significant source of latency has remained largely unchanged for
more than 50 years: frames and their buffers. Every pixel in a frame
represents the same time, meaning that by the time each frame is
completely described in the frame buffer, it is already one frame
time old (frame times vary depending on content complexity, but
60Hz frame rates are common, introducing 16.67ms of frame time
latency). Additional delays are then caused by GPU/display syn-
chronization (e.g. VSYNC or GSYNC) to avoid tearing, and by
the display scanout. Until recently, frame buffers were essential,
because rasterized rendering creates images triangle by triangle (in
object order [1]), meaning that no pixel is ready for display until the
last triangle is rendered. But today the need for frames and buffers
is beginning to decline: with GPU support [2], many recent AAA
games include ray tracing [3], and ray tracing creates images pixel
by pixel (in image order [1]), meaning that pixels can feasibly be
sent immediately to the display.
2.
A Frameless Render-Display Architecture
This paper investigates an image-order, integrated render-display
architecture designed to minimize interactive, click-to-photon la-
tency by eliminating frames, buffers, synchronization and sequen-
tial display updates. After reviewing related work, we describe our
working prototype of this architecture, built with low-cost, off-the-
shelf components. We then evaluate this prototype, comparing it to
a standard framed system using buffers, synchronization and a se-
quential progressive scan. Our prototype’s click-to-photon latency
is an order of magnitude lower than the standard system’s (1.6ms
vs. 32.7ms). In static moments, our prototype’s imagery is com-
parable to the standard system’s. During rapid motion, edges in
our prototype’s images are less well-defined than in the standard
system’s, but they are more up-to-date and more accurately depict
current application state. We close by discussing the limitations of
our work, the potential for translating this research architecture to
industry, and avenues for future research.
3.
Low Latency Needs and Frameless Systems
How low must latency go to meet user and player needs?
For
latency-critical applications, researchers have not yet found a floor.
In gaming, Spjut et al. [4] showed that shooting and tracking perfor-
mance continued improving as latency was lowered to 24ms. They
did not test lower latencies, so this may not have been a floor. In
touch interfaces such as phones and tablets, Jota et al. [5] reduced
latency to only 1ms, and still could not conclude that a performance
floor had been reached. In VR, Ellis et al. [6] found that users could
perceive latency as it was lowered to 27ms. Again, this may not
have been a floor. Little research addresses the relative value of
latency and visual quality, but a survey of esports players [7] indi-
cates that most prefer to turn VSYNC off, accepting the resulting
drop in visual quality due to frame tearing to achieve lower latency
by eliminating synchronization delay.
Given the clear harm to performance and usability of low latencies
approaching 25ms, the delays of today’s framed render-display sys-
tems loom large. For example, a GPU rendering at a 60Hz frame
rate adds latency well over 16ms, known to be harmful for touch in-
terfaces, and possibly for gaming and VR as well (recall moreover
that frame latency is only one component of total click-to-photon la-
tency). Yet work studying frameless render-display systems is lim-
ited. Bishop et al. [8] first identified the problem, and simulated
a simple frameless renderer offline. Dayal et al. [9] pushed this
work toward practicality by making the renderer adaptive, show-
ing that their renderer more accurately depicted current application
state than a framed renderer. Friston et al. [10] created the first
interactive frameless renderer, building a ray tracer on an FPGA,
which fed frameless pixels just in time to a display that used a stan-
dard sequential, progressive scan. They achieved latencies under
1ms, not counting display delay, which in their system could be
over 13ms. Finally, Fulmer et al. [11] built an interactive display
scanning simulator in software, capable of refreshing pixels in any
order, including per-pixel stochastic. None of these projects ar-
chitected systems integrating both render and display, crucial for
realizing ultra-low interactive, click-to-photon latencies.
4.
Our Integrated Render-Display Prototype
We implement our frameless, integrated render-display prototype
using a Raspberry Pi Pico 2 RP2350 and a Waveshare HUB75 RGB
LED matrix panel with 64x64 pixels, 2mm pitch and a 1/32 scan
rate. The Pico 2 features two ARM Cortex-M33 cores that can oper-
ate at clock speeds up to 150MHz, as well as a parallel, determinis-
tic programmable I/O subsystem. We use the Pico to run our appli-
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-1523-$1.00 © 2026
109-3 / E. Jonson
SID 2026 DIGEST • 1523 
Table 1. NVIDIA LDAT Click-to-Photon Latency Measurements
standard: framed, synchronized, 60Hz
prototype: frameless, integrated
scan
progressive
stochastic
progressive
stochastic
LDAT
placement
top
left
center
bottom
right
top
left
center
bottom
right
top
left
center
bottom
right
top
left
center
bottom
right
avg ms
26.8
32.7
41.6
24.5
26.5
29.9
8.1
8.2
9.1
1.8
1.6
2.0
stdev
4.8
5.0
4.9
4.3
4.9
4.7
4.9
5.2
5.2
0.8
0.8
1.1
min ms
18.1
24.3
33.1
17.6
17.6
21.8
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.7
max ms
35.0
40.9
49.4
33.6
34.5
38.1
17.5
17.4
17.4
4.7
3.8
4.8
samples
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
cation, render it, and drive the display. Our application is a simple,
completely playable version of Tetris. Our image-order renderer is
not a full 3D ray tracer, rather it uses simple 2D pixel-object in-
tersection tests without shading. The Pico runs quickly enough to
sustain scanout at rates sufficient to simulate a fully addressable,
random-access display.
We use a display with the HUB75 protocol because it is line-
addressable and can operate at extremely high refresh rates. This
enables us to simulate a fully random access, per-pixel addressable
display, which is necessary for the tightest render-display integra-
tion. The Waveshare display requires each update to include two
color lines. To simulate a single-pixel update, we write a single
newly rendered pixel into a buffer containing the current image,
then immediately scan out the entire line that contains it, with the
other line in the pair blacked out. (Note that this buffer is not a
frame buffer: its pixels can represent different times, it is only par-
tially updated and partially scanned out, and is only necessary due
to our display’s refresh and addressing constraints). By doing this
rapidly (without PWM color expansion, HUB75 panels can achieve
3-bit color at refresh rates over 12KHz), we can simulate the effect
of true random-access pixel writes typical for interactive refresh
rates, such as 60Hz.
We integrate rendering and display on this interactive simulation
hardware platform pixel-by-pixel (in image order). We first sam-
ple input and application state, then render the pixel’s color accord-
ing to this state, then send this color immediately to the display.
Note that display of this pixel does not wait for other pixels to
be rendered (as in a frame buffer), for any buffer synchronization
(as in VSYNC), nor for the pixel to be reached in display refresh
(as in progressive scan). Note further that the render-display sys-
tem is now frameless: every succeeding pixel represents a different
and more up-to-date moment, with input and state sampled just in
time. By eliminating delays between input and display, we substan-
tially reduce click-to-photon latency compared to standard, framed
render-display pipelines.
The order in which pixels need to be rendered and displayed is now
largely arbitrary, aside from display refresh constraints. In this short
paper, we focus on complete scans that visit every pixel once before
any pixel is revisited.
5.
Latency and Image Quality Comparison
To evaluate our prototype, we compare two render-display archi-
tectures implemented on the same hardware platform: our new
frameless, integrated architecture described above; and a standard
framed, modular architecture. The standard architecture first sam-
ples input and application state, then using this state for every
pixel in the frame it renders each pixel into the back buffer, sig-
nals the frame is ready and waits for the VSYNC buffer swap be-
fore iterating again. On a separate CPU core, the display driver
swaps the buffers if the next frame is ready, scans the front buffer
onto the display line by line, and then repeats this refresh process.
We throttle the refresh to maintain a 60Hz rate (16.67ms/frame or
260.42μs/scanline). To test the value of our integrated architecture
under realistic rendering loads, we throttle rendering speed on both
architectures to the widely adopted industry standard: 60Hz frame
rate (16.67ms/frame or 4.07μs/pixel).
For each of these architectures, we evaluated both progressive and
stochastic scans. For the standard framed architecture, the driver
performs a progressive scan by sending the front buffer’s lines to
the display one by one, sequentially from top to bottom (the Wave-
share’s paired line is black). The driver performs a stochastic scan
by sending the same lines in a random order fixed at initializa-
tion, mitigating refresh delays at lower regions of the display. The
frameless architecture prototype performs a progressive scan by
rendering and displaying lines top-to-bottom. Within each line, it
renders and displays pixels left-to-right. For stochastic scan, the
prototype renders and displays pixels in a random order fixed at
initialization, mitigating refresh delays not only top-to-bottom, but
also left-to-right.
To measure click-to-photon latency across these architectures and
scans, we used NVIDIA’s Display Latency and Display Analysis
Tool (LDAT) [12], a discrete hardware analyzer that uses mouse
input and a luminance sensor to accurately measure click-to-photon
latency. We ran the LDAT software on a Windows 11 machine. We
captured the mouse clicks it generated with a custom Python script
and sent them to the Pico 2 serially over a USB connection, which
briefly lit the display and triggered the LDAT luminance sensor.
To capture latency effects resulting from render and scan order, we
placed the LDAT sensor at three locations on the display: upper
left, center, and lower right.
Table 1 shows the LDAT results. Our frameless, integrated pro-
totype lowers click-to-photon latencies by an order of magnitude
when rendering and displaying pixels in a stochastic order. Its av-
erage latencies are 2ms or lower, while the standard architecture’s
average latencies are 24.5ms or higher. Part of this improvement
is due to the stochastic scan: for both the standard and frameless
architectures, stochastic ordering dropped latency by 6ms on aver-
age by increasing the frequency with which each display region is
updated. The remainder of our prototype’s latency improvement
comes from eliminating frame and synchronization delays. Note
the ≃1ms latency standard deviation with the prototype’s stochas-
tic scan: many users and gamers find variation in frame and refresh
time (“judder”) disturbing [13]. Finally, our results aptly illustrate
109-3 / E. Jonson
SID 2026 DIGEST • 1524 
(a) Standard, framed architecture
(b) Prototype, frameless architecture
Figure 1. Two static moments from the game Tetris. The images in both architectures have similar visual quality. Image (a) was
captured with shutter speed 1/35s, ISO 500; image (b) with shutter speed 1/33s, ISO 400.
the relationship between latency and display position in standard,
progressively scanned, display architectures: latencies on the bot-
tom right are ≃15ms higher than on the top — we are not aware of
any user- or player-based justification for this design. Our proto-
type architecture does not relate usability to display position in this
way.
Figures 1 and 2 show the visual quality of the images produced
by the standard framed and prototype frameless architectures. We
captured these images with an iPhone 17 Pro Max, with an expo-
sure bias value of -0.3. Recall that these are images of the interac-
tive game Tetris. In static moments (Figures 1a and 1b), both the
standard and our prototype architecture have similar visual quality.
During high-velocity motion, the captured quality of the images
produced by the standard architecture are unchanged — but they
are out-of-date due to latency, and do not accurately depict current
game state. On the other hand, the captured quality of the images
produced by our frameless architecture during high-velocity mo-
tion (Figure 2) declines, with pixels near edges showing different
moments in time — more accurately depicting current game state.
As noted earlier, most competitive gamers accept visual artifacts
like screen tearing to reduce latency [7].
6.
Discussion and Future Work
This paper proposes and interactively prototypes a frameless, in-
tegrated render-display architecture, designed to lower click-to-
photon latency. While the results are promising, readers should be
aware of several limitations in this work. First, our simulator was
built using a largely sequential and relatively slow Pico 2 proces-
sor, displaying simple content (Tetris). Fully realized systems using
our proposed architecture are likely to be implemented on highly
parallelized GPUs, with correspondingly complex content (e.g., a
AAA game). With this more advanced hardware and content, the
advantage in click-to-photon latency for our frameless, integrated
render-display architecture may not be the same as the advantage
Figure 2. A moment in motion from the game Tetris, as
depicted by our prototype, frameless architecture. Moving
edges are not clear because pixels depict different
moments, approximating game state more closely than
images from the standard, framed architecture. This image
was captured with shutter speed 1/24s, ISO 1000.
we found here. Moreover, most eventual applications will use much
higher resolution displays than 64x64. This will add to rendering
demand and affect latency, as well as changing visual quality judg-
ments. Note also that our simulator only approximated single pixel
109-3 / E. Jonson
SID 2026 DIGEST • 1525 
updates with rapid updates of full display lines; visual quality may
change when true single-pixel updates are achieved.
We built a fully interactive prototype of our frameless, integrated
render-display architecture with inexpensive and widely available
components, which bodes well for the architecture’s commercial
potential. Yet there are real rendering and display challenges that
must be overcome before that potential can be realized.
In rendering, ray tracing is now widely adopted, but is currently
used largely in a hybrid configuration with rasterization used for
primary (eye-to-object) rays, and ray tracing only for secondary
(object-to-object) shading rays.
Fully ray traced games exist
(Quake II [14], Portal [15], Minecraft with RTX [16], etc.) but
they are largely demonstration rather than commercial projects. Re-
cently the rate of hybrid ray-traced game releases has declined [3],
with industry citing ray tracing’s reduced interactivity as one cause.
Paradoxically, fully ray-traced games may help realize new levels
of interactivity. Moreover, ray tracing is not the only type of image-
order rendering; our frameless architecture can also be realized with
simpler renderers in less complex but still practical settings, like the
2D game Tetris in our prototype.
As to displays, realizing random-access and full addressability is
another significant challenge. To our knowledge, no such LCD or
LED panels exist. Realizing such displays will require overcoming
not only a hardware but also a bandwidth challenge: in addition to
color, each pixel will have to describe its location. Display tech-
nologies that do not require regular refresh may be part of the solu-
tion, enabling reduced render-display bandwidth by requiring up-
dates only when pixel colors change. Even if fully random-access
displays are not possible near-term, much of the latency reduction
we describe here can be realized without them by eliminating frame
buffer and synchronization delays, and feeding pixels to displays in
a traditional progressive order.
In the near term, our continued work will focus on further latency
reduction and evaluation.
We tested progressive and stochastic
scans here that visit each pixel before revisiting any. In contrast, we
could lower latency even further in regions of interest (e.g., at the
Tetris piece, the cursor location, or the eye’s gaze point) by updating
them more frequently than the rest of the image. Our Tetris game is
fully interactive, enabling human experiments to assess perceived
image quality and game performance. In the medium term, we will
attempt to scale our prototype with larger displays, more complex
rendering workloads, and more capable rendering hardware. Long
term, we will prototype true random-access display architectures,
possibly including always-on, state-retentive LEDs. In particular,
we will focus on platforms such as smartphones, tablets, and hand-
held gaming consoles that already integrate rendering with display
systems.
7.
Acknowledgements
Our thanks to Turner Whitted, who inspired much of this work. We
are also grateful to Markus Billeter for timely help with all things
Raspberry Pi.
References
[1] Shirley P, Ashikhmin M, Marschner S. Fundamentals of
computer graphics. AK Peters/CRC Press; 2009.
[2] NVIDIA CC. NVIDIA Turing GPU Architecture: Graphics
reinvented. Nvidia; 2018.
[3] Tarl. Has Ray Tracing Stalled? A 2025 State of the Tech
Review; 2025. Available from: https:
//gamertech.org/singlenews/Ray-Tracing.
[4] Spjut J, Boudaoud B, Binaee K, Kim J, Majercik A,
McGuire M, et al. Latency of 30 ms benefits first person
targeting tasks more than refresh rate above 60 Hz. In:
SIGGRAPH Asia 2019 Technical Briefs; 2019. p. 110-3.
[5] Jota R, Ng A, Dietz P, Wigdor D. How fast is fast enough? a
study of the effects of latency in direct-touch pointing tasks.
In: Proceedings of the sigchi conference on human factors in
computing systems; 2013. p. 2291-300.
[6] Ellis SR, Young MJ, Adelstein BD, Ehrlich SM.
Discrimination of changes of latency during voluntary hand
movement of virtual objects. In: Proceedings of the Human
Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting. vol. 43.
SAGE Publications Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA; 1999. p.
1182-6.
[7] Madhusudan A, Watson B. Better frame rates or better
visuals? An early report of Esports player practice in Dota 2.
In: Extended Abstracts of the 2021 Annual Symposium on
Computer-Human Interaction in Play; 2021. p. 174-8.
[8] Bishop G, Fuchs H, McMillan L, Zagier EJS. Frameless
rendering: Double buffering considered harmful. In:
Proceedings of the 21st annual conference on Computer
graphics and interactive techniques; 1994. p. 175-6.
[9] Dayal A, Woolley C, Watson B, Luebke D. Adaptive
Frameless Rendering. In: Bala K, Dutre P, editors.
Eurographics Symposium on Rendering (2005). The
Eurographics Association; 2005. .
[10] Friston S, Steed A, Tilbury S, Gaydadjiev G. Construction
and evaluation of an ultra low latency frameless renderer for
VR. IEEE transactions on visualization and computer
graphics. 2016;22(4):1377-86.
[11] Fulmer A, Choi HJ, Watson B. Stochastic Scanning for
Unsynchronized, Low-Latency Display Without Tearing. In:
SID Symposium Digest of Technical Papers; 2025. p.
1885-8.
[12] NVIDIA. NVIDIA Latency and Display Analysis Tool;
2025. Available from:
https://developer.nvidia.com/
nvidia-latency-display-analysis-tool.
[13] Klein D, Spjut J, Boudaoud B, Kim J. Variable Frame
Timing Affects Perception of Smoothness in First-Person
Gaming. In: 2024 IEEE Conference on Games (CoG).
IEEE; 2024. p. 1-8.
[14] NVIDIA. QUAKE II RTX; 2019. Available from:
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/
campaigns/quake-II-rtx/.
[15] NVIDIA. Portal with RTX; 2025. Available from:
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/
campaigns/play-portal-with-rtx/.
[16] NVIDIA. Minecraft with RTX; 2020. Available from:
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/
campaigns/minecraft-with-rtx/.
109-3 / E. Jonson
SID 2026 DIGEST • 1526 
