26-1 / W. Cao

TCL CSOT First 14inch 2.8K Inkjet Printing OLED Display
Weiran Cao*, Baixiang Han*, Jinchaun Li*, Yunpeng Luo*, Liying Zhang*, Jingchun Guo*
*Wuhan China Star Optoelectronics Technology Co. Ltd., Wuhan, China
caowr@tcl.com
Abstract

These all ensure the application of products.

IJP AMOLED, as for the convenient and high-output ability, holds
the demission tickets for next generation mass production. Printing
process has high requirement on OLED stack-up, which will affect
the cavity of OLED device. However, the flatness control inside
device is more difficult compared with FMM. TCL CSOT tackles
this through process flow optimization, and achieves R-shape
printing for the first time. In this paper, we delivered 14-inch IJP
high-resolution AMOLED display fabricated on G5.5 factory.

2. Results and Discussion

Figure 1. PDL design in IJP OLED.

Author Keywords
OLED; Inkjet printing; R-shape printing; Uniformity.

1. Introduction
Display technology has evolved from backlight-dependent Liquid
Crystal Display (LCD) to self-emissive and high-contrast Organic
Light Emitting Diode (OLED). Currently, the mainstream OLED
process is based on high-precision fine metal mask (FMM)
evaporation, but challenges such as low material utilization and
large-size production confinement still exist and contradict
development trends. The industry is expected to usher in a new
chapter by new OLED technology. Ink-jetting printing (IJP)
OLED, as newly technology, has been developed and iterated for
over decades [1-2]. The feasible manufacturing process made it
capable on different size of panels, range from smart-size phone to
medium-size monitor. Up to now, TCL CSOT is the only
manufacturer of inkjet printing OLED technology in the world. For
past 12 years, TCL CSOT has been investigating in this field and
has realized mass production in 2024.
The structure of AMOLED devices greatly affects their efficiency,
unavoidably resulting in excessively high voltage (ELVDDELVSS) across the circuit and corresponding high energy
consumption. Printed layers are sensitive to the down-side
substrate, which means the effect will be amplified inside IJP
OLED structure. Specifically, the flatness of film layer beneath the
light-emitting layer (EML) in thin-film devices greatly affects the
final printed EML, which cannot be directly improved through
Vacuum Drying (VCD) manufacturing process. For daily portable
notebook, the usage of rounded corner display represents an
optimal balance between engineering reliability, user-friendly
human-computer interaction, and modern aesthetics, achieved as
the consumer electronics industry matures. Like traditional OLED
evaporation fabrication process, such as FMM, IJP OLED meet
problems during R-shape corner printing as well.
In this paper, we present a 14inch AMOLED LTPS display, which
features with a 2880 x 1800 high resolution. Confined by two-type
pixel definition layer (PDL, bank), the aperture ratio of our panel
can reach larger than 40%. To reduce segment inside stack-up, this
paper proposes first time that organic layer (PLNS) fills the gaps
inner metal layer (SD) for circuit metal traces during array process
flow, thereby to reduce the segment caused by film accumulation.
The R-shape printing design was achieved by improving pixel
arrangement design and corresponding compensation algorithm.

Essentially, the array substrate and driving system are common to
different OLED technologies, while the manufacturing processes
of the OLED devices vary among them. Different from traditional
OLED, IJP OLED has 2 banks to define the pixel area. Bank1 and
Bank2 will be manufactured as PDL, featuring with different
material properties and functionalities. Bank1 with hydrophilic
property is utilized to separate pixel of the same color that align
with vertical side of panel, ensuring the ink material uniformly
flowing over the pixels in the later stage. For the layer of Bank2,
hydrophobic material is used to separate pixel of different adjacent
color, preventing the pixels with different color from mixing to
each other. Figure 1 shows the details of pixel bank design.

Figure 2. Four steps in IJP OLED process: (1) Pretreatment,
(2) Ink-Jet Printing, (3) Vacuum Dry and (4) Bake.
After the preparation of previous process, glass substrate will be
transferred to Electro luminance (EL) line to start the OLED device
fabrication. The main IJP technology will be employed to fabricate
OLED device layers of HIL, HTL and EML, comprising four key
steps: pre-treatment, ink-jet printing, vacuum dry and bake, as
illustrated in Figure 2. The pre-treatment procedure aims at
enhancing the anode surface energy and lowering OLED device
driving voltage. During the process of inkjet printing, precise
control over droplet position and ink volume uniformity is
achieved, permitting high patterning accuracy. Once the pixels are
filled with the desired amount of ink, the substrate is transferred to
a vacuum chamber for drying. This vacuum dry process helps

SID 2026 DIGEST • 358
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0358-$1.00 © 2026

26-1 / W. Cao
suppress the coffee ring effect and ensures uniform film formation
by promoting homogeneous solvent evaporation. Finally, the
substrate undergoes a bake step to complete solvent removal,
thereby optimizing the film's morphological and electrical
properties.

The R-corner shape design on the panel is one of the product
specifications driven by marketing requirements. For IJP OLED,
however, there is no prior experience in R-corner printing. Due to
the limitations in current software capabilities, the R-corner recipe
is manually edited and designed with rectangular blocks, leading to
incomplete printing of certain pixel columns. As a result, during
panel illumination, mura issue appears in the R-corner region due
to the inconsistencies in film thickness compared to the central
area.
To break through the challenge, TCL CSOT has developed the
unique shape printing technology with the equipment vendor to
fulfill the product spec. The software has been developed with
following steps and realize through: automatically reading of
printing area patterns from CAD drawings, corresponding
coordinate information identification, setting the cell pattern design
and creating the recipe to realize the target patterns.

Figure 3. Cross-sectional comparison between (a) original
design and PLNS-applied Design.
Since IJP process is highly sensitive to the morphology beneath
printed layers, we were trying to decrease segment through array
process. Due to the differences existed inside the metal stacking
structure between capacitor and trace regions, low-temperature
poly-silicon (LTPS) circuits inevitably exhibit significant segment
differences along the vertical data line direction. Figure 3(a) shows
the cross-sectional view of this original design. These minute
fluctuations bring disadvantages on subsequent IJP films formation
control. Organic PLN layer working as compensation layer, same
height as SD layer, are applied to fill the gap. Combined with
exchanged exposure model and bank process flow, the impact of
segment is further reduced and related design is shown in Figure
3(b). Compared with original design, PLN thickness in
compensated structure is decreased 50% and the depth of anode
hole was further narrowed. The benefits finally realized through
improved efficiency and pixel uniformity. For the benefits on green
and blue, the efficiency increases for 20% and 40%, respectively.

Figure 5. Performance of 14inch 2.8K IJP AMOLED Display.
High resolution based on IJP technology was then further evaluated
on LTPS AMOLED backplanes. Figure 5 shows the real
performance of 14inch 2.8K IJP AMOLED display. Attributed to
the unique strip pixel design, the display shows no color clarity and
nature frame transition. With further improvement of printing
accuracy, the limitation of PPI will be broken in the very next
future. The successful product fabrication demonstrates that G5.5
line has indeed the capability to achieve high resolution display
mass production.
The detailed specification of 14inch 2.8K panel is listed inside
Table 1. Higher refresh rate and TED design based on oxide
internal circuit [3] are still undergoing since this type of demand
from market is increasing rapidly.
Table 1. The Specification of 14inch Panel
Panel Specification

Figure 4. R-shape design in 14inch IJP OLED.

Panel Type

AMOLED

Panel Size

14inch

Backplane

LTPS TFT

Resolution

2880 x RGB x 1800

Pixel Pitch

240 PPI (Strip Real RGB)

Refresh Rate

60~120 Hz

SID 2026 DIGEST • 359

26-1 / W. Cao

4. References

3. Conclusion
With a pixel pitch of 240, the 14inch panel we discussed here
demonstrated a high-quality performance and varied the feasibility
of mass production for IJP Process. The segment caused efficiency
loss has been improved through array process optimization and
additional PLN mask, segment inside the device stack-up now
decreased smaller than 100nm. Besides, R-shape printing was
achieved for the first time through overcoming process and printing
difficulties, the 14inch display based on that shows better visual
performance. More importantly, TCL CSOT based on IJP OLED
are trying to deliver high quality and various size products in an
environmental-friendly and low-carbon way, and the further mass
production rely on IJP technology and oxide backplane will also be
delivered based on our G8.6 factory.

1.

Suzuki M, Fukagawa H, Nakajima Y, Tsuzuki T, Takei T,
Yamamoto T, et al. A 5.8‐in. phosphorescent color
AMOLED display fabricated by ink‐jet printing on plastic
substrate. Journal of the Society for Information Display.
2009 Dec;17(12):1037-42.

2.

Kant C, Shukla A, McGregor SK, Lo SC, Namdas EB,
Katiyar M. Large area inkjet-printed OLED fabrication with
solution-processed TADF ink. Nature Communications.
2023 Nov 9;14(1):7220.

3.

Cao W, Li J, Li XL, Liu Y, Hsu YJ, Wu YC, et al. 33‐2:
Invited Paper: Flexible OLED Displays with Ink‐Jet Printing
Technology. InSID Symposium Digest of Technical Papers
2022 Jun (Vol. 53, No. 1, pp. 395-397)

SID 2026 DIGEST • 360

