26-2 / S. Suemasu

Improving Printing Stability of 1pL Inkjet Head
for Mass Production of High-Resolution Display Panels
Satoshi Suemasu, Shuhei Nakatani, Futoshi Ohtsuka, Hidehiro Yoshida
Panasonic Production Engineering Corporation, Osaka, Japan
Abstract
This paper reports on the technology for improving printing
stability. We focused on 1pL printhead design to suppress nozzle
drying and misting. We confirmed that landing accuracy of 1pL
head didn’t deteriorate over 16days without any recovery work
and the 1pL head could successfully print on a 400ppi pixel bank.

Flow Resistance

Common
Chamber

Flow Resistance

Actuator

Common
Chamber

Chamber

diffusion (Chapter 3)

Author Keywords
1pL inkjet head; printing stability; nozzle drying; misting; ink
diffusion; single-drop ejection velocity; resonance period

drying

(Chapter 2)

misting

(Chapter 4)

Figure 1. Internal Structural Model of the Inkjet Head

1. Introduction
Display panels require higher resolution when the panel size is
medium and small [1][2][3]. At SID2025, Panasonic reported on
the technology for printing G8.5 350ppi OLED panels using
inkjet printing [4]. This year’s report describes technologies for
improving the printing stability of 1pL inkjet head. Inkjet heads
with small droplet size such as 1pL have a risk in printing stability
since the small nozzles can promote the nozzle drying, and the
lightweight of droplet can promote misting. It indicates that
printing stability is the key technology to success in mass
production of high-resolution display panels.
To improve printing stability, we focused on the printhead design
to apply critical issues shown in Figure 1. The main issue is to
prevent nozzle drying by expanding the nozzle size through the
printhead design to shorten the resonance period. The others are to
promote ink diffusion and to prevent misting. Although these
issues can be approached from multiple angles, including printing
process and ink formulation, we believe the foundational
performance is governed by the printhead design. Therefore, we
focused on printhead design, especially on the nozzle, flow
structure and PZT actuator.

2. Design to Expand the Nozzle

2.1. Nozzle Expansion via Resonance Shortening
The volume ejected from the nozzles of the inkjet head is
estimated by the relationship in equation (1).
V= (S × v ) × T/2 ×α

(1)

V: droplet volume S: nozzle cross section
T：resonance period α：coefficient

v：ejection velocity

To achieve droplet miniaturization, four approaches can be
considered. [A] reducing the ejection velocity can deteriorate
landing accuracy due to the influence of airflow. [B] decreasing
the nozzle size can increase the risk of nozzle drying and particle
adhesion. [C] adjusting the ink properties to shorten the ligament
is effective, but relying too much on ink properties alone may lead
to performance degradation. Consequently, we thought [D]
shortening the resonance period is considered the most efficient
approach, to achieve small droplet ejection while expanding the
nozzle size.

Bending mode
(D31)

Shear mode
(D15)

Pushing mode
(D33)

Figure 2. Representative Actuation Methods
To shorten the resonance period of the inkjet head, it is well
known that reducing the compliance of the chamber shown in
Figure 1 is the most effective method [5]. To lower the
compliance of the chamber, Reducing the size and increasing the
rigidity of the chamber is also known to be effective, and many
solutions are invented [6]. However, reducing the size of the
chamber decreases the pressing area of the actuator, requiring a
larger displacement from the actuator. Increasing the rigidity of
the chamber walls requires stronger force from actuator. To
accomplish them at the same time, printhead design in a
comprehensive manner including the flow structure and the
actuator mechanism is needed. Figure 2 shows a representative
actuating mechanism of an inkjet head. The bending mode (D31)
can generate relatively large displacement, but there is difficulty
to generate strong force. The shear mode (D15) can produce
stronger force, but it has limitations to simultaneous ejection. We
adopted pushing mode (D33) as a method that can generate both
large displacement and strong force with extended durability.
Although the displacement is not as large as the bending mode, it
can be amplified by stacked PZT while maintaining stiffness and
high density,
with advanced fabrication technologies. By
utilizing these features, we aimed for a design of small and rigid
chambers to shorten the resonance period.
Figure 3 shows the experimental result about relative changes in
nozzle diameter against the resonance period as a parameter,
under the condition of 1pL droplets ejection. It was confirmed that
the resonance period and nozzle diameter exhibit an inverse
proportional relationship, almost consistent with theoretical
predictions. Even with the same type of ink, the nozzle diameter
could be expanded by 30%, and by applying it to a different type
of ink, the nozzle diameter could be expanded by 40%.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 361
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0361-$1.00 © 2026

Experimental value

●

Experimental value

Ink type Ⅱ

+30% +40%
Ink type Ⅰ

Resistance

Resistance

Middle
Chamber

Common
Chamber

Resistance

Middle
Chamber

Chamber

Common
Chamber

Figure 5. Flow Model to Suppress Fluidal Crosstalk
Large

Theorical value

◆

Resistance

displacement

Theorical value

Nozzle Diameter
Diameter
Nozzle

Large

26-2 / S. Suemasu

Small

Base plate

Long

Resonance Period
Resonance
Period

Flow plate

Short

Figure 3. Correlation between nozzle and resonance
40

Figure 6. Structural Model to Suppress Structural Crosstalk
Nozzle1
Nozzle2

Inkjet head

・
・
・

20

Evaluation nozzle
(Center position)

0
Evaluation nozzle

-20
-40

Measuring velocity
of jetting droplets

・
・
・

0

4.2 8.4 12.6 16.8 21 25.2 29.4
Jetting timing [µs]

Figure 7. Experimental condition
Nozzle No

Figure 4. Trajectory variation
Figure 4 shows an experimental result that compares the trajectory
variation before and after nozzle diameter expansion. It can be
observed that expanding the nozzle diameter significantly reduces
the trajectory variation. This is a ripple effect of nozzle diameter
expansion, attributed to the reduced sensitivity to inevitable
physical variations in nozzle fabrication.

Velocity Variation [m/s]

Trajectory Variation [mrad]

PZT

Small

ー40%

2

0
-2

● Conventional
● Developed A
● Developed B

-4
0

2.2. Suppression of crosstalk
Short resonance period is achieved by reducing the compliance of
the chamber and lowering the flow resistance. However, these
approaches can promote pressure transmission to neighboring
nozzles, inducing “fluidic crosstalk”. Large displacement against
narrow pushing area with the D33 pushing mode is achieved by
the more stacked PZT layers. It can weaken the stiffness of the
printhead, which can enhance structural interactions during
droplet ejection called “structural crosstalk”. It has a significant
impact since droplets as small as 1pL are easily affected by even
minimal deformation. Therefore, to achieve the inkjet head design
with enlarged nozzle through the approach of shortening
resonance period, we needed to address the trade-off: the shorter
the resonance period, the more severe the crosstalk becomes.
Fluidic crosstalk was suppressed by design of segmented twostage orifice structure (Figure 5). The short resonance utilized for
ejection is formed by the inner, softer flow resistance, while
pressure transmission to other nozzles is suppressed by the outer,
stiffer flow resistance. Structural crosstalk was suppressed by
preventing deformation, warping and distortion of each element
during ejection. These are achieved by enhancing stiffness by
treating the base plate, PZT, and flow plate as a single rigid body
and by optimizing each dimension and bonding methods for
minimal deformation through analysis (Figure 6).

5

10
15
20
25
Delay of jetting timing [μs]

30

35

Figure 8. Experimental result
Figure 7 shows the evaluation method for fluidic and structural
crosstalk. Droplets were ejected from all nozzles simultaneously,
while the ejection timing of the target nozzle was incrementally
delayed. The corresponding changes in ejection velocity were
monitored to assess the influence of crosstalk. The velocity
variation at 0μs indicates structural crosstalk, while the variation
observed afterward reflects fluidic crosstalk. Figure 8 shows the
evaluation result. Compared to Conventional, Developed A is a
printhead with fluidic crosstalk countermeasures implemented.
Although a significant change in ejection velocity was observed at
a delay time of 0µs, subsequent variations were suppressed. It
indicates that although structural crosstalk remains unchanged,
fluidic crosstalk has been improved. And the Developed B, which
was implemented both structural and further fluidic crosstalk
countermeasures, exhibits few variations at a delay time of 0μs
and thereafter.
By successfully suppressing crosstalk, which is a critical side
effect of short resonance design, it was demonstrated that
practical-level ejection accuracy can be achieved while shortening
the resonance period and expanding the nozzle diameter.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 362

26-2 / S. Suemasu
3. Design to Enhance the Ink Diffusion
Drying from the nozzle tip leads to a localized increase in ink
concentration, causing film formation or partial solidification and
adhesion to the nozzle. These phenomena are governed by not
only "drying rate" but also "diffusion rate". To promote the
diffusion rate, printing processes like ink circulation and ink
oscillation are effective [7]. In addition to that, we focused on the
inkjet printhead design to enhance these printing process effects.
Figure 9 presents the analysis of ink circulation velocity near the
nozzle under the same circulation flow rate. It indicates the ink
circulation velocity near the nozzle varies depending on the flow
structure. It means optimizing the flow structure can enhance the
effectiveness of ink circulation process. In this study, although
(C), (D) showed significantly improved circulation velocity near
the nozzle, they also showed crucial side effects. Therefore,
configuration (B), which achieved three times the flow velocity
near the nozzle compared to conventional (A), was adopted.

Figure 12 shows the relative single-drop ejection velocity to the
target value on the vertical axis, and the parameter for
waveform(T4/T1) on the horizontal axis. Plots A through E
represent the same structural head as Figure 11. Across all plots,
single-drop ejection velocity is lowest near T4/T1 ≈ 2, where the
damping function becomes theoretically maximized. Although the
ejection becomes unstable and useless when the damping function
is insufficient, this result supports the validity of the hypothesis
that the second resonant wave contributes to enhancing singledrop ejection velocity. It was also observed that printheads with
higher resonant purity tend to exhibit an overall improvement in
single-drop ejection velocity like plot A, even within the range of
stable along the horizontal axis. As a result, by employing the
design that enhances resonance purity, we were able to improve
single-drop ejection velocity by approximately 10%.
Figure 13 shows the droplet ejection behavior of a 1pL printhead
designed to enhance single-drop ejection velocity by increasing
resonance purity. The ligament catches up with the leading
droplet quickly before landing, resulting in mist-free ejection.

Slow

Fast

Oscillation effect can be also enhanced through resonance period
design. By slightly delaying the resonance period on the upstream
relative to that on the downstream, the components diffused by
oscillation can be effectively driven downstream. To achieve this,
to set the upstream middle chamber and common chamber to be
larger or softer, or to increase the flow resistance on the upstream
side, shown as Figure 10 are effective.

E to A. When the resonance is pure and its peak is strong, it is
theoretically expected that velocity peak will appear at T2/T1 = 1,
3, 5, ..., and that these peaks gradually diminish. This result
indicates that the head type is approaching the theoretical value as
it moves from type E to type A. It means increasing the
compliance of the middle chamber can enhance the purity of the
resonance, creating a function of a buffer to the middle chamber
and allowing resonance to be confined within the inner region.

(A)Conventional

(B)Triangle

(C)Vertical

(D)Parallel

Figure 9. Flow structure to maximize ink circulation process

P2’

P1’

P1

P2

jetting

2

Velocity Ratio

(near the nozzle)

A B C D E

1.5

T1 T2

T4

T3

1
0.5

0
0

0.5

1

1.5

2

2.5

3

3.5

4

parameter for waveform (T2 / T1)

P3

V２

P1(P1’) , second wave

V1

P1(P1’), first wave

Figure 11. Ejection velocity and T2 (/T1)

4. Design to Suppress Misting
A droplet ejected from the nozzle may become mist if it is
overcome by air resistance or airflow energy. Mist can adhere to
the nozzle surface, leading to deterioration in ejection stability. To
prevent them, ejecting ink faster as a single drop is effective [8].
Although the velocity of single-drop formation is mainly
determined by ink properties and the ejection waveform, we
found inkjet head design itself can also contribute. Figure 10
shows the hypothetical model for improving single-drop ejection
velocity by giving sufficient energy to the ligament from the
energy of the second wave of resonance. To transfer the resonance
energy to the ligament, the design to enhance the spectral peak of
the resonance by preventing dispersion of the wave is thought to
be important. Figures 11 and 12 present the experimental results,
aimed at validating the hypothesis.
Figure 11 shows the relative ejection velocity on the vertical axis,
and the parameter for waveform (T2/T1) on the horizontal axis.
Plots A through E represent different head structures, with the
compliance of the middle chamber progressively increased from

Single-drop ejection velocity ratio

jetting

Figure 10. Hypothesis Model

1.4

A
T1 T2

T3

B

C

D

E

T4

1.2

1.0

0.8

instable

1.5

2

stable

instable

2.5

3

3.5

4

parameter for waveform (T4 / T1)

Figure 12. Single-Drop ejection velocity and T4 (/T1)
Nozzle Position

Time

Figure 13. Image of single-drop ejection

SID 2026 DIGEST • 363

26-2 / S. Suemasu
5. Printing Evaluation
5.1. Printing Stability Verification
An evaluation of ejection stability of the 1pL inkjet head over
time was conducted using a drop watcher system. Ink circulation
was maintained with a flow rate of 3 mL/min and a nozzle
internal pressure of -0.5 kPa. A process that constantly oscillates
the meniscus near the nozzle is applied to stabilize the ejection.
This oscillation is called “Tickle”. The tickle frequency was set to
1 kHz. The drop watcher system measured the droplet ejection
velocity and the variation in ejection trajectory.
If solid remains such as dried ink adhere to the nozzle lip, the
effective nozzle diameter becomes smaller, resulting in an
increase in ejection velocity and greater variation in ejection
trajectory. In this study, no increase in ejection velocity or
variation in ejection trajectory was observed over a four-week
period, and no clogged nozzles were detected as shown in Figure
14. During the four-week period, no maintenance such as pressure
purging or nozzle wiping was performed, only ink circulation and
tickle operation were used. The ability to operate without
maintenance is a critical factor when applying inkjet technology
to mass production, as it contributes to reducing panel
manufacturing costs by lowering ink consumption and increasing
equipment uptime. In other words, the highly stable results under
maintenance-free conditions indicate that the technology is at a
practical level for implementation in mass production processes.
We also conducted an evaluation of droplet landing position
accuracy using our printing system. Figure.15 shows the timedependent variation in the repeatability of droplet landing
positions along the printing scan direction. Over the 16-day
period, droplet landing repeatability remained within 2.0μm,
confirming stable printing performance.

5.2. Printing Evaluation on a 400ppi Pixel Bank

20
1Week

2Week

3Week

6
4

2
0

4Week

Angle Variation 3σ [mrad]

8

1Week

2Week

3Week

4Week

Figure.16 shows the printed result. As seen in the image, printing
was successfully performed without any color mixing into
neighboring pixels. In other words, the 1pL printhead was
confirmed not only to have printing stability, but also to achieve
printing accuracy for high-resolution panel at the 400ppi level.

6. Conclusion
We developed technologies to enhance the printing stability of
1pL inkjet head, focusing on printhead design for suppressing
nozzle drying and misting. Specifically, the printhead design to
expand nozzle by 40%, to accelerate the flow velocity near the
nozzle by 3times, and to improve single-drop ejection velocity by
10% were developed. In evaluations using the developed 1pL
inkjet head, no variation of ejection velocity and trajectory over
4weeks and no deterioration in landing accuracy over 16days
were confirmed without any recovery operations. We also
successfully confirmed that the 1pL inkjet head can print onto a
400ppi pixel bank without any color mixing.
As a result, we could confirm the possible feasibility of applying
inkjet printing systems with 1pL head to mass production of highresolution display panels. Furthermore, building on this
advancement and insight in printhead design, we will aim to
develop inkjet technologies for ejecting even smaller droplets for
higher resolution displays.

7. Reference
1.

Jaekook Ha et al., All-Inkjet-printed EL-QD Display with
Improved Efficiency and Lifetime, 61-4, SID 2023 Digest

2.

Ting Shi, Xuebin C, Xianglong L, Guangyao L, Baixiang H,
Zhaosong L, Jinchuan L, Weiran C, Realization of High PPI
Notebook using inkjet Printing Technology and IGZO
Backplate, SID 2024 Digest

3.

Ying-Tsang L,Yun-Li L, Development of MicroLED
Display Technology and Applications, 50-4, SID2022 Digest

4.

Hidehiro Y, Shuhei N, Takashi I, Yukiya U, Futoshi O, 1pL
Inkjet Head and G8.5 Equipment Development for 350ppi
OLED Display Panels, 11-1, SID 2025 Digest

5.

Shinri S, Numerical Simulation of Inkjet Process, The
Imaging Society of Japan,2010,49(3),205-213

6.

Takafumi S, Liquid dispenser head, Liquid dispensing unit
using same, and image forming apparatus using same, US
8,042,911 B2, 2011

7.

Masami K, Yoshinori B, Manabu S, Numerical Study of
Nozzle Evaporation and Increasing Ink Viscosity, The
Imaging Society of Japan, 2023, 62(6), 26-34

8.

Masafumi S, Kenichi S, Naoki M, Research on Ink
Properties, Primally Dynamic Surface Tension to Control Jet
Length, The Imaging Society of Japan, 2023,62(3),208-217

15
10
5
0

Figure 14. Evaluation Results of Ejection Stability
5

Repeatability (μm)

Average of velocity [m/s]

Using the 1pL inkjet head previously evaluated for printing
stability, we conducted a printing evaluation on custom-fabricated
400ppi pixel bank patterns shown in Figure.16. The ejected
volume was adjusted to 0.94pL ±1.7%. The 400ppi resolution
pattern had pixel dimensions of 13.0μm × 53.0μm-56.0μm, a bank
width of 8.1μm, a bank height of 1μm, and a pixel pitch of
63.3μm. This printing evaluation utilized ink containing dissolved
polymer materials and a hydrophobic bank both made by
Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. Printing was performed by
repeating the ejection of one drop per scan twice.

Figure 16. Printing Image of 400ppi Pixel Pattern

16days

4
3
2
1
0

Figure 15. Evaluation Results of Printing Repeatability

SID 2026 DIGEST • 364

