26-3 / C. A. Annis

A Comparative Analysis of Inkjet-Printed and Fine Metal Mask Patterned
OLED Notebook Panels: Benefits, Challenges, and Costs
Charles A. Annis
Omdia, Kyoto, Japan
Abstract
This paper evaluates the benefits and challenges of inkjet-printed
(IJP) versus conventional fine metal mask (FMM) patterned
OLED panels. It analyzes the manufacturing total costs of 16.3inch notebook panels by comparing materials, equipment
depreciation, yield rates, and other parameters to evaluate the
trade-offs between the two fabrication approaches.

Author Keywords
RGB; OLED; Fine Metal Mask (FMM); Inkjet Printing (IJP);
notebook; hybrid; Gen 8.6; Vacuum Thermal Evaporation (VTE);
yield

1. Introduction
Panel manufacturers and their suppliers have been developing
industrial IJP processes, equipment, and materials for a variety of
applications for much of the flat panel display (FPD) industry’s
history. After all, in theory at least, it is an eloquent approach. IJP
is very efficient; it directly prints precise patterns of only the
required amount of material, it operates in an ambient environment,
without vacuum chambers and often without an inert gas chamber,
and it does not require photomasks, expensive photolithography
tools, related equipment, or processes. These characteristics create
the opportunity for significant cost reduction compared to
conventional manufacturing approaches.
In practice, though, IJP has proven very difficult to implement in
mass production applications. Printing on large, non-absorbent,
glass substrates, at high speeds, with high drop location and size
accuracy, and high uniformity requires a complicated mix of
hardware and software expertise. It is, by many magnitudes, more
difficult than printing ink on paper. Additionally, formulating
required functional materials into low-viscosity “jettable” inks
often negatively affects the material’s performance.
There are some success stories, notably, printing of polyimide
alignment films in LCDs and organic passivation layers for thin
film encapsulation (TFE) on flexible OLEDs. However, it is in the
area of fine patterning applications that IJP offers the greatest
potential value add, and which is much more challenging.
LCD color filter (CF) patterning was the focus of IJP development
for many years. Eventually, a couple of makers did commercialize
the application, but IJP failed to become the standard approach
because the trade-offs required to commercialize IJP CF led to
higher cost and lower quality than originally expected.
In many ways, the inkjet printing of OLEDs, to date, has been a
similar story to that of LCD CFs. However, continuous
technological improvements and considerably greater benefits in
the case of RGB OLEDs have kept the promise alive. Now, with
one of the leading FPD manufacturers building the world’s first
Gen 8.6 mass production factory, IJP is closer to delivering on its
promises than ever. If successful, it could potentially disrupt the
status quo of FMM-based manufacturing, reduce OLED panel
costs, and expand the market for OLED-based FPDs.

2. Methodology
In this study, the total manufacturing cost for a 16.3”, 3456 x 2234,
hybrid IJP OLED, oxide TFT OLED panel for notebook
applications was analyzed and compared to a similar, conventional
OLED fabricated using FMM patterning of subpixels.
Table 1. Key cost modeling parameters
Parameter
IJP
FMM
Substrate size
2290 x 2620 mm
2290 x 1310 mm
Time range
2025-2028
2025-2028
Fab operation
90%
90%
Capacity (TFT
30,000 substrates
30,000 substrates per
equivalents)
per month
month
Depreciation
5 years
5 years
Oxide TFT only
Oxide TFT only
Capital costs
process + IJP
process + FMM
related equipment
related equipment
frontplane +
frontplane + module
module
OLED inks, IJP
Evaporated OLED
Material costs
heads, other
materials, FMM,
other
Yield curve
74%-84 over range 74%-84 over range
The difference in the capital cost requirements for the two
technologies is the key parameter in this comparison.
At the same time, evaluating the cost of consumables, including
lifetime and material use efficiency, the frontplane process flow,
and panel cutting efficiency, is also required to accurately model
manufacturing total costs.
Similar yield rates, production time ranges, fab operation, capacity,
TFT backplane process flows and equipment, depreciation periods,
etc., are applied to both panel types to provide a “likes”
comparison. In reality, these parameters may vary between the
technologies, but by applying similar values, the OLED patterning
technology-specific cost variations are manifested.
A wide variety of other assumptions and parameters are used to
model costs. These are not discussed in detail here as they do not
substantially influence the variations in the manufacturing of IJP
and FMM-type OLED panels.
Price, cost, yield, and other data are regularly collected through
systematic, in-person interview-type surveys of flat panel display
(FPD) supply chain companies by a team of analysts based in the
regions where FPDs are primarily manufactured. Survey
participants include material and component makers, equipment
makers, panel makers, set makers/brands, and other relevant
companies.
Information gathered is data-based and checked every quarter to
validate and track changes over time. These databases enable
bottom-up modeling of panel costs.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 365
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0365-$1.00 © 2026

26-3 / C. A. Annis
This standard methodology was used to model conventional FMM
OLED panel manufacturing costs.

various other parts of the chamber. So, FMM material utilization is
much lower than IJP, typically less than 20%.

To model IJP panel costs, targeted surveys were conducted to
gather pertinent data and confirm parameters related to IJP OLED
manufacturing and costs. This IJP-specific information was used to
adjust and expand the standard model to cover IJP OLED panels.

For similar reasons, direct printing enables larger subpixel aperture
ratios than shadow effect-constrained FMM. This facilitates sideby-side RGB subpixels, which are preferable for displaying text
compared to sub-pixel rendering techniques commonly applied in
FMM OLEDs. It also mitigates some of the IJP OLED ink's
relatively lower performance specifications.

After the model was complete, a second round of surveys was
conducted to validate and adjust the results before finalizing the
conclusions reported here.

3. Results
IJP RGB OLEDs offer many potential benefits (Table 2). However,
up until now, the IJP challenges (Table 3) have limited mass
production to low volumes.
Table 2. Advantages of IJP compared to FMM OLED
Detail
Comments
Flexible “digital”
Reduced development time, no need
production
for FMM, FMM cleaning, FMM
tension, and so on. Can change print
parameters. Fast development &
changeover. Small lot production.
Relatively low
Compared with an FMM line.
equipment costs
Significantly lower patterning
equipment costs
High material
500% more efficient than FMM
utilization
Relatively lower
Compared with an FMM line
maintenance costs
Relatively higher
Compared with an FMM line
uptime
2x or greater
Compared with an FMM patterns
aperture ratio
Smaller factory
Compared with an FMM line
footprint
Process and
Continuous incremental
equipment
improvement and learning from
improvement
previous mistakes enable high yield.
Improved
Full-size Gen 8.6 vs. Half cut FMM,
panelization
but varies by panel size. Also, multimodel glass (MMG) compatibility
Material
If Chinese material makers are
improvement and
aggressive in pursuing, they will
new development
expand small molecule development.
Long-term hope for
Transition IJP processes and knowQDEL material
how to QDEL production in the long
improvements
run
Printing RGB subpixels substantially simplifies the color
patterning compared with conventional FMM processes. This is
due to fewer vacuum steps, a smaller clean room footprint, no
FMM handling and cleaning systems, rapid product development
and production changeovers, and so on.
Also, OLED ink utilization is well above 90% as inks are dropped
directly into line trenches or pixel wells. Only a small amount of
the expensive organic materials is wasted.
On the other hand, in the FMM process, metal masks screen where
organic materials are deposited onto the substrate. This means that
at least two-thirds of the material lands on the mask. Organic
material vapor evaporating up from the source also deposits on

Half-cut frontplane processing is an inherent disadvantage of FMM
OLED manufacturing. In the TFT process, substrates are handled
at native size. However, owing to FMM sagging and alignment
issues, glass is cut in half for the evaporation process. Glass cutting
generates particles, reduces process efficiency, induces glass strain,
and wastes valuable glass area.
In IJP, even with the few open mask evaporation steps, sagging is
irrelevant; substrate alignment can be effectively managed by the
printer. Full-size substrate processing is possible, which increases
efficiency. The extent of the advantage depends on the substrate
size, panel size, aspect ratio, panel orientation, and whether MMG
is adopted.
In the 16.3-inch example analyzed in this study, 66 panels up were
assumed for IJP, while only 60-up were used for FMM. By not
having to cut the mother glass substrate in half for the frontplane
process, an economical panel layout is achieved. IJP’s 10%
efficiency improvement translates directly to lower manufacturing
total costs.
Table 3. Disadvantages of IJP compared to FMM OLED
Detail
Comments
Inks must be compatible with print
Ink compatibility
heads, which defines viscosity and
what type of solvents can be used.
Solvents can negatively affect
OLED material performance. Must
be thoroughly purified.
Ink incompatibility
ETL, electron injection layer (EIL),
and the remaining
cathode, capping layer (CPL), and
requirement of open
charge generation layer (CGL) are
mask evaporation
currently incompatible with
solution printing. Although being
developed, commercial viability is
unclear.
Material lifetime and Particularly blue. Much lower than
efficiency
evaporated blue. Large pixel
aperture compensates for this, but
cannot compete with tandem FMM.
Tandem is not
Lack of printable and robust CGL
currently feasible
material
Limited by drop size, etc. Recent
High resolution
technology advancements may
enable 350 PPI, but with trade-offs.
Various print/dry
Equipment and process technology
mura
are evolving to mitigate.
Technology
Unproven in high-volume,
immaturity
competitive market segments
Not all frontplane process materials and steps are compatible with
inkjet yet. Despite ongoing development, current ETL, cathode,
CGL, and CPL ink materials do not offer sufficient performance.
Thus, even in the IJP process, these critical materials are deposited

SID 2026 DIGEST • 366

26-3 / C. A. Annis
by open mask VTE.
This evaporator is smaller, simple in configuration, has high
productivity, and is low in price compared with FMM VTE tools.
Even so, it does complicate the IJP process and represents a
substantial capital cost.
Material efficiency and thickness requirements may cause higher
power consumption, particularly at higher resolutions.

Both examples assume that a circular polarizer is applied to reduce
ambient light reflections. That is, these assumptions are held
constant in both examples and do not affect the manufacturing total
cost comparison.
Table 5. 16.3” 3456x2234 hybrid FMM OLED for NB, 60up on half G8.6 glass, circular polarizer, no color filter
Details

2025

2026

2027

2028

Similarly, no IJP-appropriate CGL materials are yet commercially
available. Evaporated CGL films will degrade rapidly if exposed to
an ambient environment and subsequent process steps. Without
printable CGL materials, tandem architectures are not feasible.

Yielded Array Material Cost

$2.8

$2.6

$2.4

$2.3

RGB OLED

$6.3

$5.9

$5.6

$5.2

IJP head replacement

$0.0

$0.0

$0.0

$0.0

Yielded OLED Color Patterning Materials $11.0

$9.9

$9.0

$8.1

Like any new technology, there is considerable risk involved in
scaling the process from R&D/pilot production to high-volume
mass production. Even though IJP OLED has been in development
for many years, only small volumes of high-end monitors have
been commercialized to date. The material systems are rapidly
evolving, and the supply chain remains unproven. This contrasts
with the long history of FMM OLED production, even with its
known challenges. In the case of IJP, a variety of issues may only
become obvious after a new Gen 8.6 factory is ramped up.

Yielded Encapsulation Material Cost

$0.4

$0.4

$0.4

$0.3

Yielded Module Component Total

$25.8 $24.2 $22.8 $21.4

Cost comparison of IJP to FMM OLED
Detailed surveys of OLED supply chain companies, panel makers,
and brands are useful research techniques to gather data, create lists
of relevant information, and generate qualitative assumptions.
Such interviews return a widely accepted belief that IJP OLEDs
should be lower cost than FMM OLEDs. These types of opinions,
however, are typically not applied to specific examples and do not
provide clear comparisons.
To confirm the validity of assumptions, put them in an appropriate
context, and quantify the detailed cost differences, dedicated
research and cost modeling were performed.
Results of this modeling are shown in Tables 4 and 5 below.
Table 4. 16.3” 3456x2234 hybrid IJP OLED for NB, 66-up
on full G8.6 glass, circular polarizer, no color filter
Category

Subtotals

Details

Yielded Array Material Cost

2025

2026

2027

2028

$2.5

$2.4

$2.2

$2.1

RGB OLED

$3.8

$3.7

$3.7

$3.7

IJP head replacement

$0.2

$0.2

$0.2

$0.2

$7.6

$7.2

$6.7

$6.3

Yielded Encapsulation Material Cost

$0.4

$0.4

$0.3

$0.3

Yielded Module Component Total

$25.7 $24.1 $22.7 $21.3

Yielded OLED Color Patterning Materials

Labor Cost

$4.7

$5.0

Depreciation Cost (5 year example)

$19.2 $18.9 $18.6 $18.3
$3.2

$5.2

Indirect Expense Total

$3.4

Manufacturing Total Cost

$63.6 $61.1 $58.8 $56.7

Total Yield

75%

78%

$3.1

$5.5

81%

$2.9
84%

“Hybrid” refers to panels fabricated on glass substrates, with thin
film encapsulation (TFE).
Even though, in some cases, it is advantageous to use a color filter
to widen the color gamut, increase the viewing angle, and
brightness, particularly for IJP OLEDs, “Circular polarizer, no
color filter” means that neither of the panels analyzed includes a
CF.

Category

Subtotals

Labor Cost

$5.5

Depreciation Cost (5 year example)

$43.6 $43.6 $43.6 $43.6

$5.7
$3.6

$6.0

Indirect Expense Total

$3.8

Manufacturing Total Cost

$90.7 $88.8 $87.1 $85.5

Total Yield

75%

78%

$3.4

$6.3

81%

$3.2
84%

FMM mask, cleaning, and other related costs are integrated into the
RGB OLED material cost line of the example in Table 5.
IJP print heads are consumable parts. Full replacement of heads is
expensive, but depreciated over the large number of panels
manufactured every year, the cost per panel is low.
IJP material utilization is much higher than FMM VTE, but IJP
materials are still comparatively expensive. Material prices tend to
decline as volume increases. Even so, it will take a substantial
amount of time for IJP material demand to reach the volume
required to push continuous price declines.
Chinese panel makers are rapidly expanding the domestic supply
base of OLED organic materials and IJP inks to increase their
material selection flexibility, to improve material supplier support
and responsiveness, and to accelerate price reductions.
In the examples analyzed here, OLED materials account for a
relatively smaller portion of the total manufacturing costs than
depreciation.
IJP machines and the required open mask evaporator have high
productivity and are relatively lower priced than FMM VTE
equipment.
This means that the large majority of IJP’s cost savings versus
FMM OLED are from lower depreciation costs.
This analysis applies a five-year straight-line depreciation
assumption. Different depreciation approaches may be used by
various companies. Chinese FPD makers often use a seven-year
depreciation schedule.
After depreciation is complete, the cost advantage of IJP will
decline considerably, but will remain positive if all other
parameters remain equal.
Finally, improved panelization —six additional 16.3-inch panels in
this study— reduces IJP manufacturing total costs by about 10%.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 367

26-3 / C. A. Annis

4. Conclusion
Forecast to grow from 11.6 million units in 2025 to 54.1 million
units in 2030, OLED notebook PC panels are currently one of the
most promising segments of the display industry.
The excellent image quality and the thin, narrow bezel profile of
OLED panels are highly attractive to PC brands. However, to
displace LCDs and to meet, and then exceed, forecast market
penetration, competitive cost performance is important.
This study found that 16.3-inch IJP OLED notebook panel
manufacturing total costs will fall to $56.7 by 2028. That is 34%
lower than the $85.5 modeled for a similar panel fabricated using
VTE.
With the world’s first Gen 8.6, high-volume IJP OLED factory
under construction from the second half of 2025, the significant
potential cost savings from IJP OLED manufacturing may finally
be confirmed, as well as enable the further expansion of the OLED
display market.

5. References
[1] Cao W, IJP OLED Status and Future Prospects, TCL China
Star. Omdia Korea Display Conference, October 2024.
[2] Kwan HC, Noh, Y, Hwang JY. Control of Vacuum Pressure
in Vacuum Drying Process for Uniform Film Formation of
Inkjet-Printed OLEDs. Korea Institute of Industrial
Technology. SID 2024 Digest; 1772-1774.
[3] Yoshida H, Nakatani S, Inoue T, Usui Y, Ohtsuka F. 1pL
Inkjet Head and G8.5 Equipment Development for 350ppi
OLED Display Panels. Panasonic Production Engineering
Corporation. SID 2025 Digest; 114-117.
[4] Kim S, Kang T, Kim H, Mun H, Koo Y, Ha J, Lee C. AllInkjet-printed AMOLED Display with Improved Efficiency
and Lifetime. Display Research Center, Samsung Display Co.,
Ltd. SID 2022 Digest; 391-394.
[5] Park R. Display Long-Term Demand Forecast Tracker.
Omdia. October 2025.
[6] Kim J, Uno T, Heo I. OLED Display Cost Model. Omdia.
February 2025.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 368

