47-1 / S. V. Pietambaram

Glass Core Substrates – Advanced Packaging Pivot driving future AI and
HPC Chip Performance
Srinivas V. Pietambaram*
*Intel Foundry, Intel Corporation, Chandler AZ
Abstract

2. Results

Substrates are the foundation for Heterogeneous Integration
that is driving the AI and HPC industry. Future AI and HPC
packages demand more chiplets integrated on hyper larger form
factor substrates. Glass, with its superior mechanical properties,
is an ideal material to replace organic core to address this need.
In this paper, we showcase some of the breakthrough
technologies and materials innovations Intel foundry has
developed to enable this technology.

Author Keywords
Glass Core Substrates; Large Form Factor; Feature Scaling;
Bump Pitch Scaling; AI; HPC; Heterogeneous Integration; CTE;
Chiplets.

1. Introduction
The ever-increasing demand for more powerful compute and
the inevitable move of the semiconductor industry into the
heterogeneous era that integrates multiple “chiplets” in a package
will require many advances in substrates for packages. The
substrate industry has gone through major technology transitions
about every 15 years. The most recent major transition happened
in the late 90s going from ceramic to organic flip chip substrates
and became the standard for the industry, known as Organic Core
Substrate. With the dawn of AI era, chip architects are demanding
high-density, high-performance packages with increased levels of
heterogeneous die integration for data-intensive workloads and
the afore mentioned organic core substrates can no longer scale
[1-4]. As a result, over the last decade, silicon interposers (Chip
on Wafer on Substrate, CoWoS) [5] and Embedded Multi-die
Interconnect Bridge (EMIB) have emerged to enable ultra-highdensity interconnects [6-9]. These have been able to bridge the
critical paths of the chips with fast and dense pieces of silicon,
albeit at fairly high costs and without addressing the bottlenecks
of organic substrate scaling. Glass core substrates with their
superior mechanical, physical, and thermal properties can address
all the drawbacks, and hence can be a true replacement for the
organic core substrates as well as to enable continued scaling for
the next generation of semiconductor products.
The benefits of using glass as a core material for substrates
have been known for a while, but the success was limited to small
coupon demonstrations. This was largely due to the inability to
handle glass at large sizes and to process defect-free glass [10].
Recently, our focused efforts resulted in significant strides in both
equipment and technology overcoming these limitations enabling
successful fabrication of large layer count thick glass core
substrates with fully copper filled Through Glass Vias (TGVs)
and Embedded Silicon Bridges (EMIB). In this report, we discuss
some of the pioneering technologies and materials innovations
involved in enabling the making of these substrates. The results
presented are significant advances paving the path for successful
commercialization of this technology and enabling the scalability
of the packages to finer design rules, ultra large area die
complexes and Hyper Large Form Factor demanded by HPC and
AI applications.

Core Through Hole Formation and Metallization:
Cores used in traditional organic core substrates are made up
of glass fiber-epoxy laminates. Through hole density in these
organic cores is limited due to Cu electromigration along the fiber
resin. Glass being a homogeneous material doesn’t suffer from
such limitations but historically known traditional glass hole
formation methods such as CO₂ (cardon dioxide), excimer, or
long-pulse lasers often resulted in cracking and chipping.
Recently, Laser-Assisted Etching (LAE) process has been
developed that works by using an ultrashort, high-peak laser
pulses to induce nonlinear absorption (multiphoton and avalanche
ionization), creating a narrow laser-affected zone in which glass
network is locally modified by Si-O-Si bond disruption and the
formation of non-bridging oxygen and defect sites. These lasermodified regions exhibit significantly enhanced chemical
reactivity and etch selectivity, enabling smooth, low-chipping,
TGH formation [11, 12].
We optimized the process to repeatedly produce low taper, high
Aspect Ratio (AR), and tighter through hole pitches at panel scale.
Pitches that can match with chip bumps have been demonstrated
which can lead to a 10-fold improvement in the through hole
density. The Glass holes formed above were subsequently filled
with copper. High AR plating in glass substrates had been one of
the bottlenecks in the industry to realize high through hole density
at core thicknesses of above 500 µm. Figure 1 below shows the
cross-sections and X-ray images of our fully copper-filled TGVs at
high AR. No voids or defects are seen.

Figure 1. (a) Cross-section of high AR Through Glass
Holes formed with LAE process, (b) X-Ray and crosssection data showing void-free, fully copper filled TGVs.
Overlay Improvement:
As discussed earlier, glass has superior mechanical properties
than glass fiber-epoxy laminate that makes up the core in the
traditional organic core substrates. Glass has higher
mechanical/dimensional stability resulting in improved layer-tolayer interconnect overlay, ultra-low flatness enabling a lower
depth of focus for improved lithography and can withstand higher
temperatures. This can result in as much as 50% less pattern
distortion and correctable symmetric shrinkage than organic core
materials as shown in figure 2 (a). In addition, the dimensional
stability of the core in the horizontal (X) vs vertical (Y) is shown

SID 2026 DIGEST • 650
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0650-$1.00 © 2026

47-1 / S. V. Pietambaram
below in figure 2 (b). All of these taken together can lead to a
more stable substrate to mount the dies on that can be
interconnected with fine interconnections as can be seen from the
figure 2 (c) below. This will open the door to ultra-large form
factor packages with very high assembly yields.

Figure 3. (a) Singulated 24-layer Glass Core Substrate with
two embedded bridges with no SeWaRe, (b) Cross Section
image of substrate in (a), (c) Cut unit showing no
degradation post thermal shock cycling.

3. Conclusions
Figure 2. (a) Panel maps showing measured residual
overlay error by substrate, (b) Measured dimensional
change (X-Y) between process layers, (c) Improved high
temperature warpage with glass core substrates as
compared to organic core for die attach.
Singulation:
Glass is a strong material; however, it is also brittle. Under
tensile stress conditions, flaws and defects, larger than certain
thresholds, can lead to crack formation and propagation. In package
substrates containing laminated dielectric or Redistribution Layers
(RDLs) present on both sides, this manifests itself as failure known
as “SeWaRe” during singulation [13]. Intel Foundry Services
developed a dicing technology and optimized it to demonstrate 24layer, thick glass core substrates cut to units with no SeWaRe or
any other defects (Figure 3 (a) & (b)). The units were also subjected
to the rigorous thermal shock treatment TSC50, and no degradation
was seen (Figure 3 (c)).

Scaling of Organic Core substrates is running out of gas due to
intrinsic limitations in dimensional stability, flatness / thickness
uniformity and through-hole density. Glass core substrates with
their superior mechanical, physical, and thermal properties can
address these drawbacks, and replace organic substrates to enable
continued scaling for the next generation of semiconductor
products. Although, the benefits of using glass as a core material
for substrates have been known for a while, inability to handle glass
at large sizes and to process defect-free glass have limited
demonstrations to small coupons. Significant strides in both
equipment and technology driven by Intel Foundry Services
recently resulted in the industry first demonstration of large layer
count thick glass core substrates manufactured at panel scale and
paving the path for successful commercialization in the near future.

4. Acknowledgments
The author would like to thank Tarek Ibrahim, Nicholas Psaila,
Hiroki Tanaka, Vinith Bejugam, Dhruba Pattadar, Praveen
Sreeramagiri, Manohar Konchady, Jeff Kaplan, Izabela Murtagh,
John Macdonald, Rahul Manepalli, entire Substrate Packaging TD
organization, and various engineering teams from Intel for their
excellent partnership and collaborations in tackling the toughest
technical challenges.

5. References
[1]

R. Manepalli, “Advanced Packaging Substrate
Technologies for Heterogeneous Integration”, SEMI
Industry Strategy Symposium, ISS 2025.

[2]

D. D. Sharma and R. V. Mahajan, “Advanced packaging of
chiplets for future computing needs,” Nature Electronics,
vol. 7, pp. 425–427, June 2024.

[3]

J. H. Lau, "Recent Advances and Trends in Chiplet Design
and Heterogeneous Integration Packaging," ASME. J.
Electron. Packag. March 2024; 146(1): 010801.
https://doi.org/10.1115/1.4062529.

[4]

S. Li, M. -S. Lin, W. -C. Chen and C. -C. Tsai, "HighBandwidth Chiplet Interconnects for Advanced Packaging
Technologies in AI/ML Applications: Challenges and
Solutions," in IEEE Open Journal of the Solid-State
Circuits Society, vol. 4, pp. 351-364, 2024, doi:
10.1109/OJSSCS.2024.3506694.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 651

47-1 / S. V. Pietambaram
[5]

D. C. H. Yu, “Wafer level system integration for SiP,”
in IEDM Tech. Dig., Dec. 2014, pp. 626–629.

State Devices and Materials, Nagoya, Japan and 2024 Jpn.
J. Appl. Phys. 63 020803.

[6]

R. Mahajan et al., "Embedded Multi-die Interconnect
Bridge (EMIB) -- A High Density, High Bandwidth
Packaging Interconnect," 2016 IEEE 66th ECTC, Las
Vegas, NV, USA, 2016, pp. 557-565, doi:
10.1109/ECTC.2016.201.

[10] Y. Lai, K. Pan, S. Park, “Thermo-mechanical reliability of

G. Duan et al., "Die embedding Challenges for EMIB
Advanced Packaging Technology," 2021 IEEE 71st ECTC,
2021, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ECTC32696.2021.00012.

[11] O. Jedrkiewicz, D. Valetti, and P. Di Trapani, “Etching and

[7]

[8]

[9]

G. Duan et al., "Advanced Substrate Packaging
Technologies for Enabling Heterogeneous Integration (HI)
Applications," 2022 International Electron Devices
Meeting (IEDM), San Francisco, CA, USA, 2022, pp.
3.4.1-3.4.4, doi: 10.1109/IEDM45625.2022.10019355.
G. Duan et al., “EMIB and Advanced Substrate Packaging
Technologies to Enable Heterogeneous Integration
Applications,” 2023 International Conference on Solid

glass substrate and Through Glass Vias (TGV): A
comprehensive review,” Microelectronics Reliability
Volume 161, Oct 2024, 115477,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.microrel.2024.115477.
drilling of through-holes in thin glass by means of
picosecond Bessel beams,” SN Applied Sciences, vol. 1,
no. 10, p. 1267, Oct. 2019
[12] L. A. Hof and J. Abou Ziki, “Micro-hole drilling on glass

substrates—A review,” Micromachines, vol. 8, no. 2, p. 53,
Feb. 2017, doi: 10.3390/mi8020053.
[13] S. McCann, “Study of Cracking of Thin Glass Interposers Intended
for Microelectronic Packaging Substrates,” to be published
in Proc. IEEE Electronic Components and Technology Conference
(ECTC 65th ) , San Diego, CA, May, 2015

SID 2026 DIGEST • 652

