54-2 / S. Watanabe

Novel P-polarized Light Reflection Screen
for AR-HUD with Wide Field of View
Shinya Watanabe, Shusuke Arita, Akihiro Anzai, Katsuyuki Takada and Yoji Ito
Advanced Functional Materials Development Center and Electronic Strategy Headquarters,
FUJIFILM Corporation
210, Nakamura, Minamiashigara-shi, Kanagawa 250-0193, JAPAN
E-mail: shinya.a.watanabe@fujifilm.com
Abstract
We have developed a P-polarized reflection screen for automotive
windshields that suppresses ghost images in a multi-focal, wide
field of view (FOV) augmented reality head-up display (ARHUD). By incorporating a novel polarization conversion layer
that compensates for polarization changes induced by phase
differences across a wide FOV, the proposed technology achieves
effective ghost suppression. This advancement facilitates the
development of clearer AR displays in HUD, enhancing both
driver safety and user convenience.

Author Keywords
Liquid crystals; Cholesteric liquid crystals; Head-up displays;
Wide FOV; Reflection screen.

1. Objective and Background
Recent developments in augmented reality (AR) display
technologies, including AR glasses and smart helmets, have
accelerated the demand for intuitive information presentations
within diverse environments. In the automotive field, AR head‑up
displays (AR‑HUDs) that superimpose virtual content onto the
windshield are rapidly advancing. Key technical requirements
include expansion of the field of view (FOV), improved depth
rendering through multi‑focal projection, and enhanced visual
clarity under varying driver’s viewpoints (Figure1).

Figure 1. Conceptual image of the future AR-HUD

Wedge-shaped PVB is currently used in automotive HUD screens.
Ghost images are eliminated by adjusting the wedge angle to
superimpose the virtual images created by reflections from the
inner and outer surfaces of the windshield. However, if the focal
length of the virtual image or the driver’s viewpoint shifts, the
superimposition of the virtual images becomes misaligned,
leading to the occurrence of ghost images [1]. Additionally, since
S-polarized light reflection at the glass surface is utilized, HUD
images become invisible when the driver wears polarized
sunglasses [2].
To address these issues, solutions using P-polarized light have
been proposed to suppress ghost images and ensure visibility
when wearing polarized sunglasses [1,2]. Setting the angle of
incidence θ of the light from the imager to the windshield to 56–
65°, and using P-polarized output, the surface reflectance of glass
(n=1.5) can be suppressed to 0–1.3% [3], thus reducing ghost
images.
A P-polarized reflection screen is designed to achieve high
reflectivity for P-polarized light while still maintaining the level
of transmittance required by automotive windshield regulations. A
common method of P-polarized reflection is to deposit thin films
of inorganic and metallic materials onto the windshield [4].
However, metallic layers inherently absorb visible light, making it
challenging to simultaneously achieve both high transmittance
and high reflectance.
Linear polarization reflection technologies that do not absorb
visible light include polymer-based multilayer films composed of
alternating layers with different refractive index anisotropies [5],
and cholesteric liquid crystals combined with quarter wave plates
(QWP) [6]. Although these approaches do not absorb visible light,
they exhibit a different limitation: The phase difference inherent
in the reflective screen itself alters the polarization state of light
transmitted through it. Particularly for wide-FOV HUDs, this
phase-difference effect can also vary depending on the azimuth
angle (φ) of the incident light. Consequently, the transmitted light
may contain undesirable S-polarized components (Figure 2),
potentially leading to the generation of ghost images.

Figure 2. Requirements and issues for P-Polarized Reflection Screens

SID 2026 DIGEST • 751
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0751-$1.00 © 2026

54-2 / S. Watanabe
This S-polarized light increases reflection at the outer surface of
the windshield, resulting in ghost images. Therefore, suppressing
ghost images requires ensuring that the light transmitted through
the reflective screen remains P-polarized.

Therefore, we devised a concept in which a PCL is incorporated
to convert the transmitted light into P-polarized light across a
wide FOV, thereby suppressing ghost images (Figure 5).

Given this background, we developed a P-polarized light
reflection screen that can suppress ghost images over a wide FOV.
This performance was achieved through a newly designed
polarization‑conversion layer (PCL) that utilizes liquid‑crystal
alignment technology to control light transmitted through the
reflective layer into P-polarization not only in the driver's front
direction but also across a wide FOV. This paper details our
reflection screen.

2. Results
2-1. Design of the Polarization Conversion Layer
To validate the design of the polarization conversion layer (PCL),
a linear polarization reflection screen with a QWP/CLC
configuration was used as a reference structure. This
configuration combines a quarter-wave plate (QWP) that converts
P-polarized light to circularly polarized light and a cholesteric
liquid crystal layer (CLC) that reflects circularly polarized light.
PCL was applied to the side opposite QWP of CLC, forming the
new configuration (Figure 3).

Figure 5. Concept for ghost suppression using PCL
We designed a new PCL using liquid crystal alignment
technology to control the liquid crystal's Δn・d and alignment
state. Figure 6 shows the simulation results for the azimuthal
dependence of the P-polarized light ratio in the reference
configuration (QWP/CLC) and the new configuration
(QWP/CLC/new PCL). Light incident on the screen was set with
a polar angle θ = 65° and an azimuth angle φ = 0 ± 10°, assuming
a wide FOV HUD. The CLC was designed such that the average
P-polarized reflectance at 450 nm to 650 nm with θ = 65° is 26%.

Figure.3 Sample configuration for PCL
verification
The polarization state of light transmitted through the reference
configuration screen is shown in Figure 4. Light transmitted
through the screen becomes a mixed polarization state containing
S-polarized light, which causes ghost images. To suppress ghost
images, it is necessary to convert the polarization state of this
transmitted light to P-polarized light.
Figure 6. Simulation results of azimuth dependence
of the P-polarization ratio in transmitted light.
While the reference configuration showed a decrease in the Ppolarization ratio with an increasing azimuth angle, the new
configuration exhibited reduced azimuth dependence. This
achieved a P-polarization ratio of over 97% in calculations.
2-2. Verification of the Polarization Conversion Layer

Figure 4. Image of the polarization state of
transmitted light in the reference configuration.

P-polarized reflection screens were fabricated for both the
reference configuration and the new configuration. The HUD
image was observed by varying the azimuth angle (Figure 7). To
estimate the ghost image caused by light reflecting off the outer
surface of the glass after light passing through the screen, the
reflection screen was laminated onto the viewing side of the glass.
While the ghost images were visible with the reference
configuration, no ghost images were visible with the new
configuration, even as the azimuth angle changed.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 752

54-2 / S. Watanabe

Figure 7. Verification of the ghost suppression effect with new PCL.
Furthermore, Table 1 shows the performance of a sample in which
a P-polarized reflection screen was laminated inside the laminated
glass. It was confirmed that the new configuration showed no
difference in performance compared to the reference
configuration in terms of transmittance and appearance color.
Furthermore, durability evaluation showed minimal changes in Ppolarized light reflectance and haze, making it suitable for
automotive applications. Additionally, the P-polarized reflection
screen in the new configuration can be manufactured using rollto-roll processing and is applicable to windshield sizes (Figure 8).
Table 1. Performance of the reflective screen
with new PCL.

1340mm
width

3. Conclusion
We designed a novel PCL that controls the polarization state of
light passing through the reflection layer into P-polarized light.
This demonstrates its ability to suppress the ghost images over a
wide FOV. As AR-HUD technology evolves to enable virtual
images to be superimposed over a wide area based on background
position, we believe that applying this technology will enable
clearer AR displays, expand the expressive freedom of AR-HUD,
and contribute to further improvements in driver safety and
convenience.

4. References
1.

S. Pankratz, W. Diepholz, J. V. Derlofske. “Investigating
Human Perception of Head-Up Display Ghosting”.
Information Display. 37, 1, 30 (2021)

2.

J. V. Derlofske, S. Pankratz, E. Franey. “New film
technologies to address limitations in vehicle display
ecosystems”. J Soc Inf Display. 28, 917 (2020)

3.

E. Hecht, Optics 5th edition (2015)

4.

L. Schemadtke, S. Gillessen, J. Dorosario, J. Hagen.
“Projection Assembly For A Head-up Display (HUD) with
P-polarized Radiation”. U.S. Patent US2024/0269965 A1.

5.

M. F. Weber, C. A. Stover, L. R. Gilbert, T. J. Nevitt, A. J.
Ouderkrik." Giant Birefringent Optics in Multilayer Polymer
Mirrors". Science, 287, 2451 (2000)

6.

J. C. Kralik, B. Fan, H. Vithana, L. Li, S. M. Faris, "
Backlight Output Enhancement Using Cholesteric Liquid
Crystal Films". Mol. Cryst. Liq.Cryst., 301, 249 (1997)

Wind shield shape

Figure 8. Photograph of reflective screen bulk roll and
sampling image for application to the windscreen.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 753

