61-1 / M. Kondakova

OLEDs for Automotive Lighting
Marina Kondakova1, Evgeny Pakhomenko1, John Mohanraj 2, Michael Boroson1,
Joerg Knipping2, Michael Buechel2
1

OLEDWorks LLC, 1645 Lyell Avenue Suite 140, Rochester NY 14606, USA
2
OLEDWorks GmbH, Philipsstrasse 8, 52068 Aachen, Germany

Abstract
In this work we describe automotive OLED lighting panel
development for various functions. New red-emitting
panels with high brightness and long operational stability
for turn, stop and V2X communication are described. High
brightness, high efficiency cyan-emitting panels have been
demonstrated for self-driving car modes. Highly
segmented bendable panels for curved surfaces are
presented.
Author Keywords
OLED; automotive lighting; stacked OLED; efficacy;
thermal stability; V2X; cyan; bendable.
1. Objective and Background
Automotive lighting technology has been evolving from
simple road illumination for driving safety into functional,
specialized, and customizable lighting solutions.
Automotive manufacturers are increasingly integrating
OLED panels into their vehicles. Currently, red panels are
used in taillight functions with plans for higher brightness
panels to be incorporated for vehicle-to-everything (V2X)
communication, turn and stop signals. High brightness
cyan, amber and white OLED panels are also being
developed for self-driving modes, turn indicators and lit
logos. The thinness of OLEDs facilitates their seamless
integration into compact spaces and, with bendable panels,
enables lighting of curved surfaces. The intrinsic capability
to combine segmentation and uniform lit surfaces creates
opportunities for unique branding and personalization.
OLED automotive lighting technology paves the way for
new form factors, new functional uses and superior safety
systems. [1]

Figure 1. Atala Wave segmented automotive OLED panels
shown at CES2025.

2. Results
OLEDWorks’ Atala automotive OLED technology
includes many attributes, such as stacked device
architecture with charge generation layers for high
luminance and long lifetime, proprietary thin film
encapsulation, metallization layer on top of the ITO for
current distribution and improved uniformity and rigid or
flexible substrates. For red OLED lighting panels there are
strict color requirements. The OLED panels must have
CIEx,y coordinates of (0.7, 0.3) or deeper red, dominant
wavelength >627 nm and minimal color change with
viewing angle. The panels also must meet automotive
reliability standards. Environmental testing includes high
temperature (85℃ and 105℃), high humidity
(85℃/85%RH), sun light exposure and other tests. Typical
temperature conditions for automotive exterior
applications are between -40℃ to 105°C. [2] Performance
of commercial red panels is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Performance of commercial red taillight OLEDs
Brightness @ 25℃
Peak wavelength
Dominant wavelength
CIEx,y
Operating Lifetime at 60℃@ 2000 cd/m2
Storage lifetime
OLED Stacks
Panel thickness

2,000 cd/ m2
643 nm
627 nm
0.703, 0.297
20,000 hours
15 years
2
0.9 mm

Table 2: Performance of next generation of high
brightness red OLEDs. Data at 13 mA/cm2.

Brightness of the commercial panels is 2,000 cd/m2 (Table
1) but the next generation of red OLEDs must produce
luminance in the range of 5,000 - 15,000 cd/m2. To achieve
the required high luminance from a panel, we have
developed an improved OLED formulation and, for some
applications, increased the number of stacks. However,
multi-stack OLEDs exhibit significant self-heating that

SID 2026 DIGEST • 851
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0851-$1.00 © 2026

61-1 / M. Kondakova
might accelerate degradation processes. To minimize such
effects each stack is optimized on thermal stability.
To better understand the mechanisms of OLED
degradation when the device is operated at elevated
temperatures, we developed a fast stability testing
procedure. In this test, the OLED panel is fixed on a
hotplate (Thotplate can varied from 65ºC to 105 ºC) via
thermally conductive adhesive tape. OLED emission
intensity is monitored as a function of time with the
photodetector situated about 2 cm above the panel to
minimize heat transfer.

Figure 2. Thermal stability test with single segment on.
The segment is driven at 26 mA/cm2.
The results of the stability tests at 105ºC and at 26 mA/cm²
are shown in Figure 3. The 2 stack and 4 stack red OLEDs
age significantly differently under these conditions. These
data show that luminance decays more slowly in 4 stack
OLEDs compared to 2 stack devices despite higher
electrical power during operation. Because both types of
devices age at the same constant current, we can conclude
that 4 stack devices exhibit higher thermal stability
compared to the commercial 2 stack panels. Thus, the 4
stack devices can be used in applications at higher
brightness while still providing the required long lifetime.

Figure 3. Normalized light output as a function of aging
time for 2 stack (2U) and 4 stack (4U) red OLEDs at 105ºC
and 26 mA/cm2.

Cyan illumination is an emerging technology in
automotive lighting for certain driver assistance modes and
for fully autonomous cars. This technology allows for
seamless communication between the vehicle and its
surroundings and is employed to communicate a switch
from human to system control. With the number of vehicles
with advanced driver assistance modes and with the
number of autonomous vehicles on the rise, it is crucial to
develop a reliable cyan lighting technology that complies
with the brightness, efficiency, color, and stability
specifications defined by automotive standards and car
manufacturers. OLEDWorks has utilized its multi-stack
OLED technology to develop high-brightness (>10,000
cd/m2 at 10 mA/cm2), high-efficiency (>50% EQE at
10,000 cd/m2) cyan OLED panels.
To predict accurately performance of a multi-stack cyan
OLED, it is important to understand the recombination
zone (RZ) position within the stack. This problem is
commonly solved by introducing a low-energy
probe/sensitizer in different locations throughout the
emissive layer (EML) and tracking the sensitizer emission
strength as a function of its location. The spatial resolution
of such method is dictated by Förster energy transfer radius
between the emitter and sensitizer, which can be on the
order of 1-5 nm, depending on the exact donor-acceptor
pairing [3]. However, the shortcoming is the assumption
that the sensitizer itself has no impact on charge transport
and exciton density distribution. Herein, a sensitizer-free
method with lower spatial accuracy (5-10 nm) is employed
to get an understanding of the RZ position in cyan OLEDs.
The advantage of such method is simplicity in data
interpretation, as only 5 different devices with unaltered
emissive layer concentrations are required to draw
conclusions about the RZ position.
These single-stack devices are shown in Error! Reference
source not found. 4 (a), where the device of interest with
EML thickness of 40 nm is compared to four control
devices 1-4 with 10 nm EML each placed at certain regions
within the EML. Additionally, emitter location within the
cavity in control devices is chosen to be close to the optical
node. Contrary to the common practice of placing an
emitter in the optical anti-node to maximize emission
intensity, such choice is motivated by obtaining control
device spectra with significant variations in both shape
(Error! Reference source not found.(b)) and intensity
(Error! Reference source not found.(c)). Device of
interest spectrum, denoted by black line in Error!
Reference source not found.(c), is subsequently
compared to the control devices. Its shape and intensity
closely match the “Device 2” control, suggesting that
exciton recombination takes place not far (within 10 nm)
from the EML center, but on the side closer to the
EML/HBL interface. The spatial accuracy of this method
can be further improved by having the control device EML
thickness thinner than 10 nm. [4]

SID 2026 DIGEST • 852

61-1 / M. Kondakova

Figure 5. Atala Wave bendable panel with a 200 mm
minimum bend radius.

Figure 4. (a) Schematic illustration of the device of
interest and 4 controls. All layers, except for the EML, are
not drawn to scale. (b) Normalized spectral radiance of
the 4 control devices. (c) Spectral radiance of the device
of interest (solid black line) compared against the spectra
of control devices.
Using the understanding of RZ position in the single-stack
cyan OLED, a series of multi-stack cyan OLED panels
were fabricated. The brightnesses of >10,000 cd/m2 and
>20,000 cd/m2 are reached at current densities of 10
mA/cm2 and 30 mA/cm2, respectively, thus satisfying
automotive requirements for both night and day-time
illumination.

Because of uniform emission profile, Atala OLED panels
are well suited for enhanced communication through
rendering of sharp icons and other symbols as well as
dynamic lighting animations. Atala OLED panels can be
divided into segments/pixels with sharp contrast edges and
narrow/invisible gaps. Atala Digital OLED panels with up
to 60 segments (see Figure 6) have been commercialized
and panels with 500 and more segments have been
demonstrated. OLED segment sizes as small as 3 mm2 and
unlit gaps as small as 40 µm have also been demonstrated.
Each segment is individually controlled, enabling each
panel to display a variety of symbols. With these features

Beyond the performance of the OLED formulations in
automotive lighting applications, the types and design of
the substrates used to create our Atala automotive lighting
panels are major factors in the benefits of OLED
technology for automotive lighting. Initial applications
used only rigid glass substrates (0.7 mm glass) with less
than 10 separately addressable segments per panel. To
expand the application space, thin bendable glass
substrates and higher levels of segmentation (60-500
segments per panel) have been developed.
Use of flexible substrates for Atala Wave automotive
panels allows light to follow vehicle curves for greater
visibility and design freedom. Thin (0.1 mm) flexible Atala
Wave OLED panels have been commercialized recently.
These commercial bendable OLED lighting panels have
been tested and validated at a minimum bending radius of
200 mm (see Figure 5). Panel performance is the same as
that of our Atala Digital rigid glass OLEDs; the flexible
panels passed all strict automotive tests and are designed to
last 15+ years in exterior automotive use.

Figure 6. Atala Digital panels with 60 individually
controlled segments
the Atala OLED panel becomes a highly pixelated
automotive exterior light source/display. Dimming effects
in combination with pixelation enables 3-D visual effects
on a thin 2-D surface.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 853

61-1 / M. Kondakova
3. Impact
OLEDWorks is developing high brightness multi-stack
Atala OLED panels qualified for automotive applications.
The lighting technology enables designers to customize the
size and shape of rigid and bendable automotive panels
with custom designed segmentation (size, shape and count)
and different luminance requirements for each location and
function on the vehicle. Red-emitting devices with up to
15,000 cd/m2 luminance for stop, turn, and daylight V2X
communication have been demonstrated. Efficient high
brightness cyan-emitting panels with >10,000 cd/m2 have
been developed for self-driving modes and autonomous car
applications. High brightness amber- and white-emitting
OLEDs are also under development. All panels undergo
extensive automotive testing and quality control to meet
automotive regulations and performance requirements.
Product reliability is supported by an in-house
environmental test laboratory and equipment. Both
OLEDWorks sites -Aachen manufacturing and Rochester
R&D sites are IATF16949 and ISO-9001 certified.
4. Acknowledgments
The authors would like to acknowledge all OLEDWorks
colleagues that contributed to this work.
5. References
[1] https://atala.oledworks.com.
[2]. M. Kondakova, J. Eser, M. Buechel, J. Knipping, F. Lindla,
M. Boroson, J. Spindler. “Development of High-Temperature
Stable Red OLEDs for Automotive Lighting”, SID 2020 digest,
https://sid.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sdtp.13810.
[3] N. Erikson, R. Holmes. “Investigating the role of emissive
layer architecture on exciton recombination zone in OLEDs”,
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2013, 23, 5190–5198.
[4]. R. Young, M. Kondakova. “Optical Measurement of the
Emission Zone in Organic Light-Emitting Diodes”, SID
Symposium Digest of Technical Papers 40(1), 2009,
DOI:10.1889/1.3256646.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 854

