69-1 / K. Blankenbach

Comparison of Perceived Brightness and Colorfulness for Different
(Automotive) Display Technologies by Helmholtz-Kohlrausch Effect
Karlheinz Blankenbach*, Steffen Reichel*, Pascal Ulmer*, Lukas Eger*, Dale Stolitzka**
*Display Lab, Pforzheim University, 75175 Pforzheim, Germany
**Samsung Display America Lab, 3655 North 1st St. San Jose, CA 95134, U.S.A.
Abstract
Modern cars feature different display technologies with specific
color coordinates. The Helmholtz–Kohlrausch (H-K) effect
describes that more saturated colors appear brighter for the same
luminance. We evaluated three LCDs (2 standard and 1 QD
backlight) and one RGB OLED by 20 subjects. The H-K effect
was verified. Other results included 8% luminance sensitivity for
tiled displays, the need for color rendering for photos, and that
the RGB OLED provides the deepest black in direct comparison.

They were adapted to 10” using a checkerboard mask. The maximum common color gamut (CCG, see Figure 3) is the gamut that
can be rendered on all four displays with their specific measured
color coordinates. Test patterns (see Figure 4) were calibrated to
this CCG with D65 as white point including a gamma (γ) value of
2.2 (relevant for GUIs and photos). Manual 'fine tuning' was performed to achieve the same luminance, for example, by modifying the RGB grey levels via lightness using the HSL model.

Author Keywords
Helmholtz-Kohlrausch;
brightness;
saturation; LCD; OLED; Quantum Dot

luminance;

gamut;

1. Introduction
Displays are widespread especially in modern cars, are increasing
in size (including pillar-to-pillar, Figure 1) and are growing in
annual volume1. Furthermore, LCDs (edge-lit, local dimming and
quantum dot backlights) are competing with OLEDs, and will do
so with MicroLEDs in the future. Different display technologies
typically have different color coordinates (saturation, purity),
resulting in varying perceived brightness, readability, and
colorfulness. This phenomenon is explained by the HelmholtzKohlrausch (H-K) effect (see references2 to 6) and visualized in
Figure 2. Even if the luminance remains the same, colors appear
brighter when purity increases (e.g. when they are closer to the
horseshoe-like curve of CIE 1931 for monochromatic light), and
they appear more colorful4. This is essential for the calibration of
modern cockpits with various displays and light sources.
We examined this phenomenon using a specialized setup to
compare automotive display technologies. Our goal is to provide
additional methods for selecting and calibrating displays.

Figure 2. Visualization of the Helmholtz-Kohlrausch (H-K)
effect (adapted6): (Measured) luminance (center and left)
vs. perceived brightness (human vision, right) for red,
green and blue. The numbers refer to 8-bit grey scale.

Figure 1. Premium automotive cockpit with LCD (instrument cluster), OLED (center and codriver display) and
LED-based interior lighting. Source: Mercedes.

2. Displays and Setup for H-K Evaluation
We compared four displays with different color coordinates that
are currently used in cars:
(1) TN LCD for low budget vehicles
(2) IPS LCD with wide viewing angle (mostly used 2025)
(3) IPS LCD with Quantum Dot backlight film (demos)
(4) RGB OLED in mass production for premium vehicles
The display types were not known to the subjects. These samples
have an aspect ratio of 16:9 and sizes ranging from 10” to 11”.

Figure 3. Color gamut of the four displays under test and
their (maximum) common color gamut (CCG, covered by
“all” displays) for CIE 1976 UCS.
Figure 4 shows the setup for the evaluation: The four displays
were mounted behind a vertical fixture, leaving a 40 mm distance
due to the bezels. A random monochrome checkerboard
surrounds them to avoid potential human eye disturbance. We
used an illumination of 150 lux for the display wall in a dark room
without reflections on the displays (LWhite = 80 cd/m² for CCG) as

SID 2026 DIGEST • 949
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0949-$1.00 © 2026

69-1 / K. Blankenbach
well as dark room conditions (< 1 lux). The observer distance was
set to 1 m, with the eye height adjusted to the center of the
displays (gaze point) to minimize potential viewing angle effects.
Four identical PCs, each with the same graphics adapter, drive the
four displays. We used three different categories of test patterns,
which are visualized in Figure 4. During the evaluation, the same
test patterns were shown in parallel on the four displays:
•
•

•

Full-screen test patterns for RGBW and CMY.
Automotive GUI with typical icons and colors using CCG.
The colors of the full-screen test patterns were used to
create the icons. GUIs of the instrument cluster and maps
did not produce useful results in our pre-test.
Photos: Two female faces and foliage (colored leaves).

Figure 4. Set-up for evaluation with four displays for the
Helmholtz-Kohlrausch effect. The displays show here the
different test patterns used in our test (same image during
evaluation). The subjects did not know the display types.
Different methods were used to create the test patterns; examples
are illustrated in Figure 5 for full-screen tests:
(1) Luminance calibration for CCG: The same measured
luminance was used for CCG full-screen test patterns and
the automotive GUI; both are shown at the top of Figure 4.
(2) Brightness calibration for CCG: Adjusted to the same
perceived brightness by three experts for CCG for fullscreen test patterns and automotive GUI. Luminance (and
color values) were measured and noted.
(3) Luminance calibration for maximum saturation: Maximum
saturated RGB (one grey level to adjust luminance, the
other grey levels for the primaries are zero) for full-screen.
(4) Luminance calibration for photos: Done for photos using
CGG and maximum saturation (purity).
(5) Luminance calibration for photos: Various renderings of
the photos with differently reduced saturation and different
white points, for comparison of the QD LCD and RGB
OLED with the IPS LCD (judged as 'natural' in a pre-test).

Figure 5. Visualization as example of the full-screen test
pattern types for luminance and brightness calibration.

3. Evaluation Results
We conducted a user study with 20 participants after refining the
test patterns according to a pre-test, which also involved 20
participants, 50% of those were different from the final test. 65 %
were between 20 and 30 years old (the rest were older) and 80 %
were male (we do not expect gender to have an impact). 35 %
were experienced in display evaluation. 80 % of the subjects were
judged by the observer as to be relaxed, focused and credible in
their responses (in this combination). The rest had at least one of
these three criteria that was less favorable, but not too much. The
display types were not known to the subjects. The evaluation
method was in accordance with ITU-R BT.500-13: The doublestimulus impairment scale (DSIS) method involved five steps for
the direct comparison of neighboring displays as well as the
ranking of the displays from brightest to darkest (all using a
forced-choice approach). The tasks of the subjects were:
A. Rank all four displays from brightest to darkest for full
screen test patterns and judge on vividness for full
saturation.
B. Compare directly (full screen patterns) the QD LCD and the
RGB OLED with the IPS LCD regarding which one is
brighter and how large the difference is perceived.
C. Automotive GUI: Compare the readability of the icons,
judge on vividness of the colors, which gear wheel of the
icon ‘settings’ is the darkest …
D. Photos: Judge on authenticity for maximum saturation and
select for the QD LCD and the RGB OLED the sample of
various renderings, which is closest to the IPS LCD.
The following sections present selected results.

3.1 Luminance-calibrated CCG full screen - method ‘A’
Blue was ranked as brightest in Figure 6 for the OLED (highest
saturation see Figure 3) by 45% of the subjects by method ‘A’
(see above). This is in accordance with the color coordinates
(purity) shown in Figure 3 for the four displays and confirms the
Helmholtz-Kohlrausch effect. The differences observed for green
and white were smaller than those for blue.
Figure 7 shows the ranking results for red using ‘A’ and a
weighting function: Sum of the ranks (brightest ‘1’ to darkest ‘4’)
weighted by 8 for #1, by 4 for #2, by 2 for #3 and by 1 for #4. The
standard deviation of the ranking for saturations over 90% was
approximately ±10 for a weight of >60. The results are not fully
compliant with the H-K effect as the IPS LCD was rated as
brightest but the OLED has a higher saturation.

Figure 6. Selected evaluation results: Common color
gamut (CCG) blue using luminance calibration as reported
by the subjects.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 950

69-1 / K. Blankenbach

Figure 7. Selected evaluation results: Red using common
color gamut (CCG) for luminance calibration with weighted
ranking and saturation.

3.2 Luminance-calibrated CCG full screen - method ‘B’
In addition, we asked the subjects to make direct comparisons of
the neighboring displays, asking “Which one is brighter?” and
“How large is the perceived difference?” (method ‘B’, see above).
The conditions were CCG and luminance-calibration. The TN
LCD was excluded as a result of the pre-tests. Figure 8 left
visualizes the direct comparisons for blue between the IPS LCD
and the QD LCD: The majority rated the perceived brightness as
the same or only very slightly different. 4 of 20 subjects stated
that the IPS is (as mean) very slightly to slightly brighter than the
QD LCD. Only 10% reported the QD to be brighter than the IPS.
Figure 8 right shows the corresponding results for IPS LCD vs.
the OLED: 45% ranked the OLED to be brighter (very slightly to
slightly) and only a few vice versa. One third perceived both
displays as being the same. Those results correspond with the
“forced” ranking shown in Figure 6, thereby validating both
methods and the Helmholtz-Kohlrausch effect for this case.

some modifications (‘modified’) to force perceived differences
(outcome of the pre-test). The TN LCD is omitted here as being
of low relevance for modern cars.. The subjects were asked to
provide rankings (method ‘A’) and to perform direct comparisons
(method ‘B’), which is the focus here. The IPS LCD at 21.8 cd/m²
for ‘red modified’ is perceived as roughly the same brightness as
the QD display at 23.1 cd/m². When the luminance for ‘red’ of the
IPS LCD is reduced to 19 cd/m² (a difference of ~4 cd/m²) the
QD LCD is clearly perceived as being brighter. Consequently, a
difference of ~ 3 cd/m² at a distance of 40 mm between the
displays was clearly noticeable to the participants. This helps to
define a threshold for the luminance calibration of tiled displays.
Green leads to less significant results as expected by the H-K
effect. The OLED appeared slightly brighter overall for ~13 cd/m²
for ‘blue modified’. A ‘rule of thumb’ from these tests are that 40
mm tiled displays should differ by less than 10% in luminance to
achieve the same perceived brightness.
Table 1. Measured luminance values for brightness
calibrated test patterns incl. variations (modified:
highlighted in purple) to force differences.
L /cd/m²

IPS LCD

QD LCD

OLED

Red

19.0

23.1

19.1

Red modified

21.8

23.1

19.1

Green

63.7

68.0

59.1

Blue

13.0

13.9

15.0

Blue modified

13.0

13.9

13.2

3.4 Automotive GUI at various settings
There is hardly any observed difference for the automotive GUI
(see top right of Figure 4) between luminance and brightness
calibration for CCG rendering. This is due to the icons being
much smaller in size than the full-screen test patterns, as well as
being spaced further apart. A preference for e.g. highly saturated
red for warnings was stated. This has also advantages at bright
light conditions (“bleaching of colors”, see reference4 as the
mixed color (original plus white light) has a higher saturation.
The perception of a gear wheel (surrounded by the same white
luminance for all displays) of the settings icon of the automotive
GUI (see Figure 4 top right): 80% responded that the OLED
showed the darkest black (Figure 9), while 95% judged the TN
LCD to have the brightest black (not plotted here). This clearly
proves that the ‘true black’ of OLEDs is perceived as such even
when surrounded by white (the local contrast is highest).

Figure 8. Direct comparison of IPS LCD to QD LCD (left)
and OLED (right) for CCG blue and luminance calibration.

3.3 Perceived brightness -calibrated CCG full screen
As expected, the brightness-calibrated test patterns for CCG show
fewer variations in ranking and smaller perceived differences in
direct comparison for neighboring displays than the luminancecalibrated patterns. The outcome of the brightness-adjusted tests
enables the measured luminance differences to be judged. Table
1 shows the measured luminance values for the primaries incl.

Figure 9. Automotive GUI: Perception of black of the settings icon is judged as best (deepest black) for the OLED.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 951

69-1 / K. Blankenbach
3.5 Additional Findings
•
•

•

There was no significant difference in the ranking for Lcalibrated CCG for the RGB for full screen test patterns
between 150 lux and dark room conditions.
There was no significant difference in brightness perception
for full screen white for both CCG and maximum
saturation. The differences for green for these cases were
much smaller than for red and blue. This is in accordance
with the H-K effect.
Photos (see bottom of Figure 4) should be rendered to
smaller gamut for large gamut displays (QD LCD, RGB
OLED). They were judged at full saturation as unnatural,
see Figure 10. Very similar judging was provided for the
image showing leaves (foliage). The TN LCD had
noticeable degradation for photos due to gamma issues.

Our evaluations confirm the Helmholtz-Kohlrausch effect
(except for some deviation for red), whereby colors with the same
CIE coordinates appear brighter when generated by higher
saturation primaries. For the QD LCD, red has the highest
simulated brightness QHK, compare to Figure 3. However, the
evaluation shows that the IPS LCD is ranked as the brightest for
the same luminance and CCG, see Figure 7 and the other tests
(5% luminance difference, see §3.3), which are not shown in
more detail here. We will further study this to determine whether
the CIECAM Helnholtz-Kohlrausch model should be improved
or if this deviation is within acceptable limits for evaluations
involving subjects.

5. Summary
We have successfully implemented a test setup that compares
display technologies in terms of the perceived brightness and
colorfulness of various colors, automotive GUIs, and photos. Our
goal was to evaluate and to judge on the Helmholtz-Kohlrausch
effect, which we achieved (with additional results):
Displays with a larger gamut (higher saturation) appear brighter
at the same (measured) luminance. This can be used to reduce
power consumption and to improve color perception in the
presence of ambient light reflections.
Furthermore, photos should be rendered on large gamut displays
to a smaller gamut (like standard LCDs). Tiled displays at 40 mm
distance should differ in luminance by less than 10%.

Figure 10. Authenticity of photos (faces) for saturated
colors and luminance calibration.

Our findings will help to design, to calibrate and to improve
displays in addition to “traditional” parameters such as luminance
and cost for use in various applications such as vehicles.

4. CIECAM Simulation of Helmholtz-Kohlrausch

6. Acknowledgements

We investigated as well for the displays under test and the
environment the CIECAM16 model7 as improved by Hellwig8 to
include H-K effect on perceived brightness. The adapting
luminance is 5 cd/m2. This simulator can apply many conditions
that can consider surround luminance and display white point that
will change as the viewing environment changes. In all cases, two
fundamental truths emerge see Figure 11: The QHK (H-Kmodified brightness) exhibits a stronger effect than the traditional
brightness (Q, grey bars) for the primaries. In addition, the
technologies with the widest color gamut, such as the OLED or
Quantum Dot LCD as shown in Figure 3, produce the strongest
H-K effect. However, the difference for white (right) between Q
and QHK is very small compared to the primaries RGB. This is
an expected and validated result.

The authors express their deepest gratitude to Samsung Display,
Korea and Samsung Display America Labs, USA for funding.

7. References
1. Wu S. Navigating Innovations and Trends in Automotive
Displays. SID Information Display. 2025;41:28-33.
https://doi.org/10.1002/msid.1551
2. Donofrio RL. The Helmholtz-Kohlrausch effect. Journal of
the SID. 2011;19:658-664.
3. Park Y. Determining the color appearance of HelmholtzKohlrausch effect for self-emissive displays. Journal of
Information Display. 2022;23(3):235-242.
4. Blankenbach K, Buckley E. Perceptual Effects of LaserBased HUDs. IEEE Journal of Display Technology.
2012;8(4):194-197.
5. Hellwig L, Stolitzka D, et al. Brightness and Vividness of
High Dynamic Range Displayed Imagery. SID Symposium
Digest. 2022;53:1009-1012.
6. Wood M. The Helmholtz-Kohlrausch Effect. [cited 2025
Nov. 12]; Available from:
https://www.mikewoodconsulting.com/articles/Protocol%20
Summer%202012%20-%20HK%20Effect.pdf
7. Commission Internationale de l'Éclairage (CIE). The CIE
2016 Colour Appearance Model for Colour Management
Systems: CIECAM16. ISBN 978-3-902842-94-7,
DOI 10.25039/TR.248.2022

Figure 11. Simulation results of brightness Q vs. H-K
compensated brightness QHK acc. CIECAM167 for
luminance calibration for three displays.

8. Hellwig L, Stolitzka D, Fairchild MD. The brightness of
chromatic stimuli. Color Research & Application.
2023;49(1):113-123.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 952

