69-2 / S. Ryu

Display Simulation Model-based Backlight Optimization and Compensation
for Enhanced Picture Quality FALD Displays
Seungchul Ryu*, Hyunjin Yoo, and Jean Lorchat
Forvia Faurecia, QC, Canada
aiden.ryu@forvia.com*

Abstract
Full-array local dimming displays have been considered highly
desirable and promising across diverse applications, such as automotive digital clusters, cockpit displays, home appliances, and
advertisements. However, despite the high potential to deliver a
high dynamic range of picture quality, previous local dimming
optimization and compensation algorithms limit the picture quality of full-array local dimming displays mainly due to halo artifacts. This paper proposes the display simulation model-based
compensation algorithm as well as the backlight optimization algorithms for full-array local dimming displays. Experimental results on three full-array local dimming displays show that the
proposed method outperforms the compared methods in qualitative/quantitative picture quality and power saving.

Author Keywords
full-array local dimming; display simulation model; halo artifacts;
high contrast; high dynamic range display; backlight optimization

1. Introduction
Full array local dimming displays (FALD) have been considered
highly desirable and promising in diverse applications: automotive cockpit displays, digital clusters, infotainment displays, advertisement, and home appliances [1]. FALDs are capable of delivering high contrast by selectively dimming backlight zones in
darker areas, resulting in significantly enhanced, deeper blacks and
improved overall picture quality. Despite high contrast and superior picture quality, FALDs suffer from undesirable artifacts such
as halos and luminance non-uniformity. Several studies have been
conducted to improve the viewing experience and deal with the artifacts, including backlight optimization algorithms [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]
and compensation algorithms [9, 10].
Picture quality of FALDs is affected by the combination of the backlight optimization algorithm, the displayed image, and the backlight
characteristics [11, 12]. Despite its promising potential to deliver
high dynamic range picture quality, there is a lack of compensation methods for FALDs to address halo artifacts and inconsistent
luminance values across different content and backlight zones [11].
Thus, it is crucial to develop effective compensation methods for
practical FALD systems to be successful.
This paper proposes an effective and efficient framework to obtain high picture quality while reducing the power consumption of
FALD systems. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows.
•

This paper proposes a content-adaptive and luminanceconsistent backlight optimization method, which provides
high contrast and brightness consistency across different
images.

•

This paper proposes a display simulation model-based

Figure 1: The block diagram of the proposed method
compensation algorithm, which effectively compensate
halo artifacts and increases luminance uniformity.
•

Qualitative and quantitative experimental results prove that
the proposed method achieves high picture quality while
significantly reducing power consumption in FALD systems.

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the proposed display simulation model-based backlight optimization and compensation algorithm in detail. Experimental results are analyzed in Section 3. Lastly, Section 4 concludes this
paper with some future works.

2. Proposed Method: Display Model-based Backlight Optimization and Compensation
The backlight optimization and compensation algorithms play a
crucial role in delivering high-quality pictures in an FALD system.
This paper presents a display simulation model-based backlight optimization and compensation algorithm as an advanced variant of
[1, 9, 11].
As illustrated in Fig. 1, the proposed method mainly consists of two
modules: the backlight optimization module and the compensation
module. The proposed method takes an image, I, and a display
profile, P, as input. The display profile, P, includes the dimensions
of the backlight and the point spread function (PSF) profile of one
backlight LED.
Backlight Optimization Module: The backlight optimization
module generates a backlight control index, b, based on the luminance of the input image I. The input image, I, is first divided into
grids, with each grid, gi∈Nz , centered at the location of a backlight
LED, where i indicates the ith backlight zone and Nz indicates the
number of zones. The maximum luminance value is selected as
the backlight control index for each grid, bi . The generated backlight control index is normalized into (0 - 1) to obtain bn . Then,
bn is multiplied by the brightness consistency control value, sc ,
to generate the backlight control index, b, which delivers consis-

SID 2026 DIGEST • 953
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0953-$1.00 © 2026

69-2 / S. Ryu

(a) I

(b) B

(c) IL

(d) II

(e) IP

(f) Ic

Figure 2: Examples of intermediate results. (a): input image, I, (b): diffused backlight map, B, (c): perceptual image for the
FALD display, IL , (d): perceptual image for the ideal display, II , (e): perceptual image for the compensated image on the
FALD display, IP , (f): compensated image, Ic
tent brightness across different images. The brightness consistency
control value, sc is defined as sc = bt /max bn , where bt represents
the target brightness of the display.
Compensation Module: Display Models and Compensation Algorithm: The compensation module takes an image (I),
display profile (P), and the generated backlight control index (b)
as input and generates the compensation layer (C). The compensation layer, C, is combined with the input image, I, to compensate
for potential halo artifacts and inconsistent luminance/color in different zones. In the compensation module, the diffused backlight
map, B, is first generated as follows:
Bp =

∑

bi · P(|p − zi |2 )

(1)

i∈Nz

where Bp is the diffused backlight map value at the pixel, p, and P
represents the PSF of each LED. bi and zi represent the ith backlight control index and the center location of the ith backlight LED
zone, respectively. ||2 indicates the L2 norm. The diffused backlight map, B, is then used to generate the perceptual image for the
FALD display, IL , based on the FALD display model as follows:
IL,k = Ik γ · B + Lbl + κ · ((1 − Ik γ ) · B + Lbl )

(2)

where the subscript k ∈ (R, G, B) represents the color channel. γ
is the sRGB transfer parameter, determined by the display characteristic (2.2 as the default). Lbl and κ indicate the black level luminance of the FALD display in cd/m2 and the display light leakage,
respectively. Then, the perceptual image for the ideal display, II ,
is generated as follows:
II,k = Ik γ · 1 + Lbi

(3)

where 1 indicates an all-one matrix, and Lbi indicates the black
level luminance of the ideal display in cd/m2 . Note that the ideal
display model, (3), can be derived from the FALD display model,
(2), by setting the display light leakage, κ, to zero, and the resolution of the backlight, b to be the same as the display resolution.
Based on the FALD perceptual image and the ideal perceptual image, the compensation layer, C is computed as follows:
C=

II
IL + ε

(4)

where ε is an adopted small constant value to mitigate potential
divide-by-zero errors. Then, the computation layer, C, is combined
with the input image, I, to generate the compensated image Ic , as
follows:

Ic = I · C = I ·

II
IL + ε

(5)

The compensated image, Ic , is displayed on FALD displays where
the generated backlight control index, b, controls backlight LEDs.
Examples of intermediate results from the proposed algorithm are
shown in Fig. 2.

3. Experimental Results
Experimental Setups : In order to evaluate the performance
of the proposed method, it is compared with five different algorithms: backlight optimization and compensation, on three FALD
displays: FALD#1 with 252 zones and 2560x1440 image resolution, FALD#2 with 200 zones and 3840x2160 image resolution, and
FALD#3 with 270 zones and 1920x720 image resolution.
In the experiments, 26 original images were adopted and processed with different local dimming algorithms (LDA). The proposed method is compared with 5 different LADs. LAD1 is a highcontrast backlight optimization with a pixel-wise compensation,
and LDA2 is a low-contrast backlight optimization with a pixelwise compensation. LDA3 is a medium-contrast backlight optimization without a compensation algorithm, and LDA4 is a highcontrast backlight optimization without a compensation algorithm.
LDA5 is full-backlight-on backlight optimization without a compensation algorithm. Due to high-contrast backlight optimization,
LDA1 and LDA4 suffer severe halo artifacts. The quantitative picture quality is evaluated in terms of the perceptual contrast, halo
artifacts, luminance uniformity, and brightness consistency. In addition, power consumption is also analyzed. Radiant ProMetric I29
Imaging Photometer [13] and XRite i1Pro [14] were used to capture
the luminance of the displayed image on FALD displays.
Quantitative Evaluation - Metrics : As recommended in [11],
the global contrast ratio, Cg , and local contrast ratio, Cl , are used
to measure the perceptual contrast of FALD displays, which are
defined as follows:
Lmax + ε
(6)
Cg =
Lmin + ε
1 ∑ Lb + ε
N r j Ld + ε
Nr

Cl =

(7)

where Lmax and Lmin represent the maximum and minimum luminance values within the entire image, respectively. Nr represents
the number of selected regions. Lb and Ld represent the brightest
and darkest luminance values within each region, respectively.
For halo artifact evaluation, the halo size and halo luminance are
used, which are measured on a specifically designed pattern image,

SID 2026 DIGEST • 954

69-2 / S. Ryu
Table 1: Evaluation of the proposed method compared with different LDAs on FALD#1, FALD#2, and FALD#3. P represents
power consumption. Higher values indicate better for Cg and Cl while lower values indicate better for ξ, Λ, Uz , Uz , and P.
Cg

Cl

ξ

LDA1
LDA2
ours

1201.6
670.9
1501.7

41.3
21.2
56.1

LDA3
LDA4
Ours

367.9
481.1
534.5

24.5
25.1
30.5

LDA5
Ours

841.1
2237.2

58.5
80.6

Λ
Uz
FALD#1
1.72 0.20%
8.6%
1.70 0.10% 10.3%
0.85 0.06% 4.4%
FALD#2
FALD#3
-

where the white square of the backlight zone size spans two different zones [11]. The halo size, ξ, is defined as the relative size of the
halo to the backlight zone size as follows:
ξ=

dH
X

(8)

where X and dH represent the size of the backlight zone and the
size of the halo, respectively. The halo luminance, Λ, is defined
as the relative luminance of the halo to the peak luminance at the
center of the zone, which is defined as follows:
Λ=

Lzb
Lp

(9)

where Lzb and Lp represent the luminance of the halo at the zone
boundary and the peak luminance within the backlight zone, respectively. Please refer to [11] for more details.
In order to measure the luminance uniformity across different zones
within an image, Uz is employed, defined as:
√∑
Nx
2
x (Lx − Lm )
Uz = 100%
(10)
Lm
1 ∑
Lx
Nx x

Uc

P (mW/nit)

-

17
21
12

15.6%
20.1%
6.5%

93
62
58

-

27
12

Quantitative Evaluation - Results : Table 1 shows the analysis comparison of the proposed method with other algorithms on
three FALDs: FALD#1, FALD#2, FALD#3. As shown in Table 1,
the proposed method shows higher contrast on all three different
FALDs. On average, 72% of the local contrast and 126% of the
global contrast were increased. Also, the proposed method significantly reduced the halo size and the halo luminance compared to
LDA-1 and LDA-2 on FALD#1. On average, 70% of halo size,
ξ, and 50% of halo luminance, Λ, were reduced. Further, the proposed method decreases Uz by 5% and Uc by 11.3% on FALD#1
and FALD#2, respectively, demonstrating that it provides higher
brightness and greater luminance consistency.
In addition to the picture quality measurements, we also analyzed
the power consumption of different algorithms. As shown in Table
1, the proposed method consumed the least power, achieving an average of 35% power savings compared to the compared algorithms.
In summary, the proposed method provides superior picture quality
compared to other algorithms in terms of contrast, halos, luminance
uniformity, and brightness consistency, while reducing power consumption.

Nx

Lm =

(11)

where Lx and Lm represent the luminance value for each measured point, x, and the average luminance value of all the measured
points. Nx is the number of the measured points.
The content across luminance uniformity, Uc , is used to evaluate the
brightness consistency, which measures how the maximum brightness varies across different contents.
√∑
Ny
2
y (L̂y − L̂m )
Uc = 100%
(12)
L̂m
1 ∑
L̂y
Ny y
Ny

L̂m =

(13)

where L̂y and L̂m represent the max-luminance value for each image, y, and the average max-luminance value of all the images. Ny
is the number of images.

Qualitative Evaluation : In addition to the quantitative evaluation, this paper qualitatively compares the picture quality of the
proposed method. Fig. 3 depicts the luminance image of the proposed method and the compared algorithm captured by the Radiant
imaging sensor [13] on FALD#1 display, showing that the perceptual quality of the proposed method is superior to the compared
algorithm.

4. Conclusion
This paper proposes display simulation-based backlight optimization and compensation algorithms. Quantitative and qualitative
analysis on diverse FALD displays showed outperforming results
of the proposed method in contrast ratio, halo artifact reduction,
brightness consistency, luminance consistency, and power consumption. Future works will include color space compensation and
an on-the-fly display profiling algorithm for enhanced practical usage.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 955

69-2 / S. Ryu

(a) LAD2

(b) Ours

Figure 3: Qualitative evaluation of the proposed method. Luminance images are captured by the imaging sensor, which was
displayed on FALD#1. (a) The left columns are LAD2, and (b) the right columns are the proposed method.
References
[1] Phillips J, Tarabay N, Okon A, Yoo H, Lorchat J. Balancing
Cost and Quality Goals with Full-Array Local Dimming
Displays. Information Display. 2025;41(1):12-6.
[2] Zhang XB, Wang R, Dong D, Han JH, Wu HX. Dynamic
backlight adaptation based on the details of image for liquid
crystal displays. Journal of Display Technology.
2012;8(2):108-11.
[3] Narwaria M, Da Silva MP, Le Callet P. Dual modulation for
LED-backlit HDR displays. In: High Dynamic Range
Video. Elsevier; 2016. p. 371-88.
[4] Lin FC, Huang YP, Liao LY, Liao CY, Shieh HPD, Wang
TM, et al. Dynamic backlight gamma on high dynamic
range LCD TVs. Journal of Display Technology.
2008;4(2):139-46.
[5] Zhang T, Wang Y, Wu H, Li M, Lei Z. High-performance
local-dimming algorithm based on image characteristic and
logarithmic function. Journal of the Society for Information
Display. 2019;27(2):85-100.
[6] Zhang T, Zhao X, Pan X, Li X, Lei Z. Optimal local
dimming based on an improved shuffled frog leaping
algorithm. IEEE Access. 2018;6:40472-84.
[7] Cha S, Choi T, Lee H, Sull S. An optimized backlight local
dimming algorithm for edge-lit LED backlight LCDs.
Journal of Display Technology. 2015;11(4):378-85.

[8] Chung H, Tarabay N, Okon A, Yoo H. 79-4: Efficient Deep
Learning-based Backlight Extraction for Local Dimming
Display. In: SID Symposium Digest of Technical Papers.
vol. 55. Wiley Online Library; 2024. p. 1104-7.
[9] Tarabay N, Yoo H, Akhavan T. Simulation tool and pixel
compensation methods for local and global dimming
displays. In: Proceedings of Electronic Displays
Conference. Nuremberg, Germany; 2022. .
[10] Song SJ, Kim YI, Bae J, Nam H. Deep-learning-based pixel
compensation algorithm for local dimming liquid crystal
displays of quantum-dot backlights. Optics express.
2019;27(11):15907-17.
[11] Ryu S, Yoo H, Lorchat J, Hermann DS. Objective Picture
Quality Measurements of Local Dimming Displays:
Methods and Comparison. In: Proceedings of the Vehicle
Displays and Interfaces Symposium. Detroit, MI, US; 2025. .
[12] Blankenbach K, Bhatti F. 35-1: Halo Mura of OLED and
FALD LCD: Measurements and Perception for Automotive
Displays. In: SID Symposium Digest of Technical Papers.
vol. 53. Wiley Online Library; 2022. p. 424-7.
[13] Radiant I29;. Available from: https://www.
radiantvisionsystems.com/about-us/news/
radiant-introduces-prometric-i29-ultra-high-resolutionimaging[14] i1Pro;. Available from:
https://vpixx.com/products/x-rite-i1pro/.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 956

