69-3 / D. Rosen

Polarization Accurate Simulations of Complex Multilayer Optical Films for
Automotive Display Systems
David Rosen*, Jincy Jose*, William Gray*
*3M, Saint Paul MN
Abstract
Accurate simulation of polarization is essential for many display
applications. Birefringent and coherent effects make simulating
polarization in ray tracers difficult. To address this, we have
developed a method that uses Mueller matrix data integrated
with commercial ray tracing software. Validation was
performed using a simple cross-polarizer model, followed two
automotive case studies that utilize reflective polarizers.

Author Keywords
HUD; Heads-up display; Polarization; Cold Mirror; Speos;
LightTools; Simulation; Automotive display; Reflective
Polarizer; Thermal Management.

1. Introduction
For the past few decades, traditional non-sequential ray tracing
has been used to simulate the performance of optical systems.
This includes things like LCD backlights, projectors,
illuminations systems, automotive lighting and heads-up
displays. While still a powerful tool, traditional ray tracing treats
light as discrete rays, and does not account for the wave nature
of light. This limitation has prevented accurate simulations of
multilayer optical films where thin film interference is the basis
for their optical properties. This limitation is especially relevant
for reflective polarizer films which use thin film interference
with many layers of birefringent materials to achieve their
unique optical properties [1].
Commercial ray tracing software packages have attempted to
solve this limitation by implementing several methods of
approximating film behavior. The most common method is to
use tabulated data that that contains the transmission and
reflection coefficients for the s, and p polarizations states at
various angles of incidence (polar angle) and wavelength [2, 3].
This method can be effective for simple thin films such as antireflective coatings but fails to accurately model complex
multilayer films such as reflective polarizers or circular
polarizers.
To overcome these difficulties there are two options that
immediately present themselves. First, one could use a
secondary physics engine in real-time as rays interact with the
surface to calculate the full wave physics of the of film and pass
the information back to the ray tracer. In this work, we have
implemented a second method where the polarization
characteristics of the film are tabulated in a more thorough
manner using a Mueller matrix formalism. Assuming sufficient
sampling within the tabulated data including angle of incidence
(polar angle), plane of incidence (azimuthal angle), wavelength,
front/back orientation the ray tracer can accurately simulate the
behavior of complex multilayer films such as reflective
polarizers.

2. Background Information
Mueller Matrix Generation: Mueller matrices are generated
using a custom proprietary thin film calculation software

developed at 3M. Though there are now commercial options
available that perform similar calculations [4, 5]. The software
uses the transfer matrix method to calculate the full Mueller
matrix for a given multilayer film stack at specified angles of
incidence (polar and azimuthal), wavelength, and incident side.
LightTools: A user defined optical property (UDOP) has been
created that allows LightTools to read in the Mueller Matrix data
files. It also performs the necessary calculations to take in the
incident ray information and calculate the transmitted and
reflection rays. The UDOP also allows the user to specify the
orientation of the film. It also allows both an option for an inplane rotation, or bias, and an option for flipping the
construction to swap the front and back sides of the film. This is
important for films that are not symmetric in construction and
have different optical properties when illuminated from the front
or back sides and when there are different media on either side
of the film.
Speos: For Speos, a plugin surface optical property (SOP) has
been developed that allows Speos to read in the Mueller Matrix
data files. Similar to the LightTools UDOP, the SOP performs
the necessary calculations to take in the incident ray information
and calculate the transmitted and reflection rays.

3. Comparison vs built-in methods
A simple setup has been designed to test the Mueller matrix
method in each software. See this example in Figure 1, where
planar surfaces were created and one was rotated 90 degrees.
Linear polarization models were added to each surface to create
a cross-polarizer model. A conoscopic intensity sensor was
added to the model to measure the transmitted light.

Figure 1. Schematic of cross-polarizer system in
LightTools.
In this system the cross-polarizers were simulated in two ways.
First, a coating optical property was used that implemented the
coating as a tabulation of ts, tp vs wavelength and polar angle.
Second, the UDOP that used tabulated Mueller matrix was used.
Results can be viewed in figure 2. In this figure it can be
observed that the coating method does not recreate the expected
Maltese cross pattern [6]. While there are other built-in methods
within the software that are all useful in their own right, they all
have limitations that prevent them from matching the UDOP.
The other methods that are available are not under examination
in this paper.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 957
ISSN 0097-996X/26/5701-0957-$1.00 © 2026

69-3 / D. Rosen

Figure 2. Output of cross-polarizer model. a) shows the
output using an optical coating and b) shows the output
using the UDOP.

4. Case Study: Head-up Display (HUD) in Speos
A Heads-up Display (HUD) system is shown in Figure 3, where
s-polarized light from the picture generation unit (PGU) is
projected to the windshield surface. To eliminate ghosting due to
reflections off the inner and outer windshield surface, the
windshield is approximated to a single interface. To reduce solar
heat radiation reaching the PGU, a 3M™ Cold Mirror Film
(CMF) is used as the fold mirror in the HUD system. The CMF
is a multilayer reflective polarizer which reflects over 95% of
the polarized visible light from the PGU and transmits 50% of
the visible solar radiation and over 90% of the near-IR solar
radiation.

Figure 4. Solar irradiance on PGU (Speos Simulation).

A typical luminance map of HUD image is shown in Figure 5.
The PGU was set to emit 0.7 Lumen prior to the linear polarizer
and generating about 3000 Nits maximum luminance in the
HUD image zone, which is within the acceptable range of HUD
luminance under daylight ambient lighting (Maximum
luminance of 10,000 Nits) [7]. With the addition of a polarized
sunglass, the HUD luminance drops by 84% as is evident in
Figure 4(b).

Figure 3. Schematic of the HUD system.
To estimate solar energy reaching PGU and demonstrate 3M
CMF as a potential fold-mirror replacement, we performed
optical simulation of the HUD system with sun as the
illumination source. Solar irradiance maps on the PGU for a
100% reflective cold mirror and 3M CMF are shown in Figure
4. Incoming solar power was adjusted to obtain 50,000 Lux on
the outer surface of the windshield. For the 100% reflective cold
mirror, the entire spectral band of the solar radiation is directed
towards the PGU surface, measuring a flux of 1.2W. By
replacing the cold mirror with 3M™ CMF, the flux on PGU
lowers to 0.14W, which is about 88% reduction.

Figure 5. Image of the projected HUD image without and
with polarized sunglasses.

SID 2026 DIGEST • 958

69-3 / D. Rosen
5. Case Study: Black Print Head-up Display
Backlight in LightTools
A windshield black print head up display system including the
backlight is shown in figure 6, where there is a back reflector, a
light guide, a 3M™ Brightness Enhancement Prism Film (BEF),
a 3M™ Image Redirecting Film – Reflective Polarizer (IDFRP), and an LCD panel. The IDF-RP has a prism layer and a
reflective polarizer layer. After leaving the LCD panel the light
will reflect off the windshield or other element of the vehicle
into the eyebox of the viewer. The IDF-RP film serves a dual
purpose; it has a reflective polarizer to help recycle light in the
backlight and a prism layer to turn the output light distribution
to a desirable angle for reflection into the eyebox of the driver.

accomplished using new custom written plugins for LightTools
and Speos. Using the new capability we have shown that you
can simulate two different types of automotive heads-up
displays and capture important phenomena such as polarized sun
glass readability, backlight recycling, and solar flux on interior
pieces.
There are other applications where this capability could be
useful. Anywhere polarizers are used could be imagined.
Extended reality devices often use reflected polarizer in their
components, like pancake lenses, and polarizing beam splitters.
In the consumer electronics spaces the new capabilities could be
used to optimize the circular polarizer in an OLED display for
example.

7. Impact of Research
The UDOP plugin is available now on the 3M™ Digital
Materials Hub (https://digitalmaterialshub.3m.com/). The
installer for the plugin can be found on the learning center page
for optical models and then the individual optical model files
can be downloaded from the product catalog.

8. Acknowledgements
Author David A. Rosen wants to acknowledge the technical
support received from the Ansys Optics team at Synopsis.

9. References

Figure 6. Schematic of IDF-RP backlight system
A model of the backlight system was built in LightTools. In
Figure 7 the angular output of the backlight with and without the
IDF-RP. The effect of the prismatic layer on the light output is
clear, turning the peak from on-axis to and an angle of 5.5
degrees which is better suited for reflection to the observer.

Figure 7. Conoscopic output of the black print head up
display with and without Image Redirecting Film –
Reflective Polarizer (IDF-RP). Left shows the angular
output without IDF-RP and right shows the tilted output
with it.
Examining the data further the peak brightness of the output has
been calculated. In the case where the IDF-RP is present the
peak value is 40% higher than the case without the IDF-RP.

6. Conclusion

1.

Weber MF, Stover CA, Gilbert LR, Nevitt TJ, Ouderkirk
AJ. Giant birefringent optics in multilayer polymer mirrors.
Science. 2000;287(5462):2451-2456.
doi:10.1126/science.287.5462.2451

2.

LightTools Illumination Design Software | Keysight.
Accessed November 25, 2025.
https://www.keysight.com/us/en/products/software/opticalsolutions-software/optical-design-solutions/lighttools.html.

3.

Speos coating surface format – Ansys Optics. Accessed
November 25, 2025. https://optics.ansys.com/hc/enus/articles/30422704374931-Speos-Coating-SurfaceFormat.

4.

STACK Optical Solver Overview. Ansys Optics. Published
2022. Accessed November 25, 2025.
https://optics.ansys.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034914653STACK-Optical-Solver-Overview

5.

Insideoptics.com. Published 2025. Accessed November 25,
2025. http://www.insideoptics.com/wp/

6.

Hecht, Eugene. Optics, 2nd ed., Addison Wesley (1990)
ISBN 0-201-11609-X. Chapter 8.

7.

SAE International Technical Standard, Standard - Optical
System HUD for Automotive, SAE Standard J17572_201811, Issued November 2018,
https://doi.org/10.4271/J1757-2_201811.

Through both case studies we have shown that it is now possible
to accurately simulate complex polarizers including reflective
polarizers in commercial ray trace software. This was

SID 2026 DIGEST • 959

